=== page 1 ===
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025
ANYTOUCH: LEARNING UNIFIED STATIC-DYNAMIC
REPRESENTATION ACROSS MULTIPLE VISUO-TACTILE
SENSORS
Ruoxuan Feng1
Jiangyu Hu2,3
Wenke Xia1
Tianci Gao1
Ao Shen1
Yuhao Sun3
Bin Fang3∗
Di Hu1∗
1Renmin University of China
2Wuhan University of Science and Technology
3Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications
ABSTRACT
Visuo-tactile sensors aim to emulate human tactile perception, enabling robots to
precisely understand and manipulate objects. Over time, numerous meticulously
designed visuo-tactile sensors have been integrated into robotic systems, aiding
in completing various tasks. However, the distinct data characteristics of these
low-standardized visuo-tactile sensors hinder the establishment of a powerful tac-
tile perception system. We consider that the key to addressing this issue lies in
learning unified multi-sensor representations, thereby integrating the sensors and
promoting tactile knowledge transfer between them. To achieve unified represen-
tation of this nature, we introduce TacQuad, an aligned multi-modal multi-sensor
tactile dataset from four different visuo-tactile sensors, which enables the explicit
integration of various sensors. Recognizing that humans perceive the physical en-
vironment by acquiring diverse tactile information such as texture and pressure
changes, we further propose to learn unified multi-sensor representations from
both static and dynamic perspectives. By integrating tactile images and videos, we
present AnyTouch, a unified static-dynamic multi-sensor representation learning
framework with a multi-level structure, aimed at both enhancing comprehensive
perceptual abilities and enabling effective cross-sensor transfer. This multi-level
architecture captures pixel-level details from tactile data via masked modeling and
enhances perception and transferability by learning semantic-level sensor-agnostic
features through multi-modal alignment and cross-sensor matching. We provide a
comprehensive analysis of multi-sensor transferability, and validate our method on
various offline datasets and in the real-world pouring task. Experimental results
show that our method outperforms existing methods, exhibits outstanding static
and dynamic perception capabilities across various sensors. The code, TacQuad
dataset and AnyTouch model are fully available at gewu-lab.github.io/AnyTouch/.
1
INTRODUCTION
Tactile perception is an important sense through which humans perceive the physical world. For
many years, researchers have been working to endow robots with human-like tactile perception
abilities through diverse tactile sensors (Liu et al., 2022; Maiolino et al., 2013; Yuan et al., 2017).
Among them, with high resolution comparable to human touch, various types of visuo-tactile sen-
sors have garnered widespread attention (Yuan et al., 2017; Donlon et al., 2018; Lambeta et al.,
2020). Many studies have attempted to use robots equipped with visuo-tactile sensors to perform
manipulation tasks such as grasping (Xu et al., 2024) and inserting (Li et al., 2014).
However, due to the low standardization of visuo-tactile sensors, different sensors may exhibit dis-
crepancies in perceiving the same tactile information. This variability poses challenges to building
precise robotic tactile systems, as sensor-specific data collection (Yang et al., 2022; Gao et al.,
2023) and model training limit the data scale and diversity for the model of a single sensor and lead
to suboptimal perception capabilities. To address this issue, some initial efforts have explored us-
*Equal corresponding authors.
1
arXiv:2502.12191v3  [cs.LG]  1 Apr 2025


=== page 2 ===
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025
ing multi-sensor data collaboratively to enhance cross-sensor knowledge transferability (Yang et al.,
2024; Zhao et al., 2024). Nevertheless, the lack of aligned multi-sensor data has hindered these at-
tempts from effectively integrating disparate sensors and constructing a unified representation space.
Considering this data issue, Rodriguez et al. (2024) collected a dual-sensor paired dataset to enable
cross-sensor generation. However, their focus on specific manipulation tasks limited the variety
of sensors and collected objects. Moreover, they overlooked the potential benefits of paired multi-
modal data for enhancing sensor transferability and achieving comprehensive tactile perception.
To enhance support for multi-sensor integration, we collect TacQuad, an aligned multi-modal multi-
sensor tactile dataset containing 72,606 contact frames, using four different visuo-tactile sensors.
We select these representative sensors from publicly available sensors, self-made sensors, and force
field sensors to ensure diversity. To balance the trade-off between the cost of data collection and the
accuracy of pairing, we collect fine-grained spatio-temporal aligned data on a calibration platform,
while larger-scale coarse-grained spatial aligned data is acquired through the handheld collection, as
shown in Figure 1. Additionally, we capture the objects being touched using a camera and annotate
tactile attribute descriptions for each collection, forming a comprehensive touch-vision-language
dataset. This dataset utilizes paired multi-modal data as a bridge to mitigate the impact of sensor
variability on the understanding of tactile semantic features, and enables the explicit integration of
sensors into a unified multi-sensor space for effective knowledge transfer between sensors.
Building on this solid foundation, we further revisit the challenge of learning unified multi-sensor
representations: How can we obtain unified multi-sensor representations adaptable to a wide array
of tasks? We recognize that the human tactile perception is a combination of static and dynamic
processes, as humans derive comprehensive tactile perception from multiple types of information
such as texture, sliding, and pressure changes. Drawing on this insight, we propose learning unified
representations from both static and dynamic perspectives to accommodate a range of tasks.
To obtain multi-sensor representations of this nature, we introduce AnyTouch, a unified static-
dynamic multi-sensor tactile representation learning framework. This framework integrates the input
forms of tactile images and videos, collectively utilizing them to reinforce the model’s abilities to
perceive both static properties and dynamic changes. Moreover, we design a multi-level architecture
to comprehensively strengthen the model’s capabilities for capturing pixel-level tactile details and
semantic-level sensor-agnostic features. Specifically, we utilize masked modeling (He et al., 2022;
Tong et al., 2022) to maximize the use of multi-sensor data for learning fine-grained, pixel-level
details. Subsequently, we conduct multi-modal aligning and a novel cross-sensor matching task to
understand semantic-level tactile properties of objects across different sensors and extract sensor-
agnostic features. We aim for the multi-sensor representations to share a common space and cluster
by the tactile information of the object they represent, thereby reducing the gap between sensors.
To further promote knowledge transfer across multiple sensors, we propose randomly replacing the
sensor-specific tokens (Yang et al., 2024) with universal sensor tokens during training. This strategy
ensures the model maintains its ability to process and perceive tactile data across various sensors,
while also providing knowledge from all seen sensors for generalization to unseen sensors.
We conduct both quantitative and qualitative experiments to analyze the transferability of multi-
sensor data and assess the impact of our framework on the multi-sensor representation space. Build-
ing on this, we comprehensively evaluate the static and dynamic tactile perception capa

=== page 3 ===
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025
DIGIT
GelSight Mini
DuraGel
Tac3D
The tactile sensor touches the top center of a rough hard orange. The contact point is relatively
hard and firm with roughness and a slightly elastic feel .
Coarse-grained Spatial Aligned
Fine-grained,Spatio-temporal,Aligned
Tac3D
The tactile sensor touches the top center of a glass jar, which has a hard, smooth, and 
transparent surface with a series of texture.
DIGIT
DuraGel
TacQuad: Aligned Multi-Modal Multi-Sensor Tactile Dataset
25 Objects
30 Touches
17,524 Frames
(Indoor + Outdoor)
99 Objects
151 Touches
55,082 Frames
Four Visuo-tactile Sensors
GelSight Mini
(Public)
DIGIT
(Public)
DuraGel
(Self-made)
Tac3D
(Force Field)
Sponge
Porcelain
Wool
Fiber
Feather
Metal
Rusted
Rustless
Plastic
Hard
Soft
Food
Vegetables
Fruits
Others
Plant
Bark
Stem
Leaf
Stone
Glass
Rubber
Hard
Soft
Paper
Material Distribution
Data Collection
Four 
Sensors
Handheld
Calibration Platform
GelSight Mini
Figure 1: TacQuad: an aligned multi-modal multi-sensor tactile dataset from four visuo-tactile
sensors. We select GelSight Mini (Inc.) and DIGIT (Lambeta et al., 2020) from publicly available
sensors, DuraGel (Zhang et al., 2024) from self-made sensors, and Tac3D (Zhang et al., 2022)
from force field sensors for diversity. There is a noticeable gap between the data from these sensors.
We use the four sensors to touch the same position on the same object to obtain aligned data. To
maximize aligned data collection, we use two methods to gather subsets with different alignment
accuracy. We collect fine-grained spatio-temporal aligned data on a calibration platform, while
larger-scale coarse-grained spatial aligned data is acquired through handheld collection.
source image generation. Similarly, to integrate multi-source tactile data from different sensors,
techniques such as multi-sensor joint training (Zhao et al., 2024; Higuera et al., 2024; Gupta et al.,
2025), multi-modal alignment (Yang et al., 2024), and cross-sensor generation (Rodriguez et al.,
2024) have emerged. However, these methods overlook the benefits of jointly utilizing multi-modal
data and aligned multi-sensor data to bridge the sensor gap. In this work, we collect an aligned
multi-modal multi-sensor dataset and propose learning unified multi-sensor representations.
Visuo-tactile Perception. Visuo-tactile sensors have garnered widespread attention due to their high
resolution (Yuan et al., 2017; Donlon et al., 2018; Lambeta et al., 2020; Zhang et al., 2024; 2025).
Nowadays, many works utilize visuo-tactile sensors to capture contact deformations, enabling the
completion of dexterous manipulation such as dense packing (Li et al., 2022), grasping (Xu et al.,
2024), and insertion (Li et al., 2014). Visuo-tactile sensors can also collaborate with other sensors
to assist the robot in performing more complex manipulation tasks. For instance, Feng et al. (2024)
dynamically integrates visuo-tactile signals with visual and audio data to collaboratively accomplish
fine-grained manipulation tasks, such as pouring and peg insertion with keyway. In addition to these
tasks requiring dynamic tactile perception, visuo-tactile sensors are also used in static tasks such as
material classification (Yang et al., 2022) and shape reconstruction (Gao et al., 2022b). However, due
to the low standardization of visual-tactile sensors, these methods fail to leverage larger and more
diverse data from other sensors and lack sensor transferability. In this work, we propose learning a
unified multi-sensor representation from both static and dynamic perspectives.
Representation Learning. Representation learning has achieved remarkable success in improving
model generalization in various fields. Techniques like BERT (Devlin, 2018) and masked autoen-
coder (MAE) (He et al., 2022) have enhanced the model’s performance across various downstream
applications. With the rise of multi-modal learning, representation learning has expanded its impact
across fields. Vision-language pre-training (Radford et al., 2021) has seen tremendous success, and
more modalities, including audio (Guzhov et al., 2022), touch (Yang et al., 2024), and 3D point
clou

=== page 4 ===
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025
3
ALIGNED MULTI-MODAL MULTI-SENSOR TACTILE DATASET
The low standardization of visuo-tactile sensors and the gap between multi-sensor data have resulted
in insufficient data for individual sensors and the poor cross-sensor transferability of tactile models.
Rodriguez et al. (2024) has made an initial attempt to address it by collecting a dataset with 32,256
pairs of tactile images from two sensors with a limited variety of objects for specific manipula-
tion tasks. It does not consider tactile properties such as material and hardness, and overlooks the
potential to enhance cross-sensor transfer capabilities through multi-modal information.
In this work, we present a more comprehensive solution to this problem by providing multi-sensor
aligned data with text and images, explicitly enabling the model to learn semantic-level tactile at-
tributes and sensor-agnostic features to form a unified multi-sensor representation space through
data-driven approaches. We collect TacQuad, an aligned multi-modal multi-sensor tactile dataset
with a greater variety of objects, larger data volume, and more types of sensors. To ensure sensor
diversity, we select GelSight Mini (Inc.) and DIGIT (Lambeta et al., 2020) from publicly available
sensors, DuraGel (Zhang et al., 2024) from self-made sensors, and Tac3D (Zhang et al., 2022) from
force field sensors for data collection. The first three sensors are used to collect tactile images, while
the Tac3D is used to capture deformation force fields. However, considering collecting fine-grained
aligned tactile data is very costly, to collect data on a larger scale while ensuring as much data pairing
as possible, we use both coarse and fine methods to collect aligned data:
Fine-grained spatio-temporal aligned data. We fix the four sensors side by side in a rectangular
container and connect them to the movable end of a calibration platform. We use a program to
control the four sensors to press the same position on the same object in sequence, sharing the same
speed and depth. Consequently, we obtain a set of continuous spatio-temporally aligned contact
frames. Due to the high requirement of precision, the process is time-consuming, thus we try our
best to collect 30 sets of aligned data across 25 objects. This portion of the data contains a total
of 17,524 contact frames, which can be used for fine-grained tasks such as cross-sensor generation.
See more details for the fine-grained data collection in Sec. A.5 of the Appendix.
Coarse-grained spatial aligned data. We collect data in a handheld manner by sequentially press-
ing the same location on the same object with four sensors. While pressing, we introduce some
twisting motions to the handheld sensors to better simulate the authentic dynamic touch experience
of humans. This method allows us to obtain a larger amount of aligned data in a short time. Using
this approach, we collect 151 sets of aligned data from 99 objects, including both indoor and outdoor
scenes. This portion of the data contains a total of 55,082 contact frames.
Each tactile frame in the dataset has a paired visual image and tactile attribute descriptions that
generated using GPT-4o and manually corrected. We aim to bridge the gap between sensors and
achieve a more comprehensive tactile perception by aligning with the multi-modal data. As a result,
we obtain an aligned multi-sensor multi-modal tactile dataset, as shown in Figure 1.
4
METHOD
In this section, we introduce AnyTouch, a unified multi-sensor tactile representation learning frame-
work from the perspectives of both static and dynamic perception, as shown in Figure 2. Concretely,
we integrate the input format of tactile images and videos (Sec. 4.1) and focus on learning both fine-
grained pixel-level details for refined tasks (Sec. 4.2) and semantic-level sensor-agnostic features for
understanding properties (Sec. 4.3) and building unified space (Sec. 4.4) by a multi-level structure.
We also propose universal sensor tokens for better knowledge transfer.
4.1
UNIFIED INPUT FORMAT FOR STATIC AND DYNAMIC TACTILE PERCEPTION
In daily life, human tactile perception includes both static an

=== page 5 ===
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025
Touch
Encoder
Static
Tactile Image
Dynamic
Tactile Video
Masked
Tactile Image
Touch
Decoder
Static
Tactile Image
Dynamic
Tactile Video
(Positive / Negative Samples)
Touch
Encoder
(or 
)
Image 
Reconstruction
Video Reconstruction
&
Next Frame
Prediction
Multi-Modal
Contrastive Learning
Vision
Encoder
Text
Encoder
“The tactile sensor 
is touching two
iron nails. The
nails are hard ...”
Task
Head
Cross-Sensor Matching
Does the two samples come from
the same position of the object?
0/1
(Anchor)
Masked
Tactile Video
Masked Modeling: Pixel-Level Details
Multi-Modal Aligning: Semantic-Level Properties
Cross-Sensor Matching: Sensor-Agnostic Features


Stage 1: Pixel-Level
Stage 2: Semantic-Level
Touch
Encoder
(Shared)
(Shared)
Specific
Sensor Token
Universal
Sensor Token
…
Replace
(Probability =
)
Specific Sensor Token
Universal Sensor Token
Class Token
Masked Token
LoRA Fine-Tuning
Legends
Training 
Step
Replacing
Probability
Universal Sensor Token
(Linear Increase)
(or
)
(or
)
Figure 2: Overview of AnyTouch. Our framework integrates static tactile images and dynamic tac-
tile videos, aiming to learn a unified multi-sensor representation suitable for various tasks. Through
a multi-level architecture, we employ masked modeling to learn pixel-level tactile details, and use
multi-modal aligning and cross-sensor matching to understand semantic-level sensor-agnostic tac-
tile properties. We also use universal sensor tokens to integrate and transfer sensor information.
to represent both I and V as Girdhar et al. (2022; 2023), where F is the number of frames and
H, W denote the shape of images. We then process XT ∈RF ×H×W ×3 into spatio-temporal tokens
z ∈RN×d through a shared patch projection layer, where N is the length of tokens and d represents
the feature dimension. By unifying the processing of images and videos in this manner, our approach
integrates tactile images and video input, enhancing the model’s ability to comprehend both static
and dynamic information, and endows the model with the potential to accomplish various tasks.
4.2
MASKED MODELING: LEARNING PIXEL-LEVEL DETAILS
Visuo-tactile images are fine-grained data with pixel-level details of subtle tactile deformations and
continuous changes during dynamic processes, especially for refined perception tasks. To enhance
the fine-grained perception capabilities of the tactile representation model, we employ the masked
autoencoder technique (He et al., 2022; Tong et al., 2022), compelling the model to capture pixel-
level details across multiple sensors. Concretely, we randomly mask the tokens of both tactile images
and videos with a masking ratio ρ, and build a decoder to obtain the reconstructed static images ˆI
and dynamic videos ˆV . The corresponding loss function LS
rec and LD
rec are mean squared error
(MSE) loss between the original masked tokens and reconstructed ones in the pixel space:
LS
rec =
1
|ΩM|
X
p∈ΩM
|ˆI(p) −I(p)|2, LD
rec =
1
F|ΩM|
F
X
f
X
p∈ΩM
| ˆVf(p) −Vf(p)|2,
(1)
where p is the token index, ΩM is the set of masked tokens and Vf is the f-th frame in the video V .
We use masked modeling to learn fine-grained tactile deformation features at the pixel level, as well
as the temporal dynamics of tactile changes.
To further enhance the model’s understanding of continuous deformation changes, we introduce an
additional task of predicting the next frame VF +1 while reconstructing the dynamic video V . The
loss function LD
pred is MSE loss between the original frame VF +1 and the predicted frame ˆVF +1:
LD
pred = 1
N
N
X
p
| ˆVF +1(p) −VF +1(p)|2.
(2)
4.3
MULTI-MODAL ALIGNING: UNDERSTANDING SEMANTIC-LEVEL PROPERTIES
After obtaining tactile representations with fine-grained perceptual details via masked modeling,
we aim to further understand semantic-level tactile properties and use paired multi-modal data as
a bridge to narrow the gap between sensors. Therefore, we propose using multi-modal aligning,
which binds data from various sensors with paired modalities for a more comprehensive semantic-
level perception and reduce perceptual differences between sensors. However, differences in data
collection scenarios across 

=== page 6 ===
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025
Vision
(Single Dataset)
Touch
(Single Sensor)
Touch-Vision-Language
Contrastive Learning
Vision
(Single Dataset)
Touch
(Single Sensor)
UniTouch
Vision
(Multi-Datasets)
Touch
(Multi-Sensors)
Ours
Vision
(Multi-Datasets)
Touch
(Multi-Sensors)
Text
Text
Touch-Vision
Contrastive Learning
Object 3
Object 2
Object 1
Figure 3: Comparison with existing multi-modal aligning methods. Our method not only uses
multi-modal data to bridge the gap between sensors, but also explicitly clusters representations of
the same position on the same object from different sensors together.
alignment less effective in bridging sensor gaps. Therefore, we select the text modality, which
consistently describes tactile attributes across datasets, as an anchor to align touch, vision, and text
modalities. Since tri-modal tactile datasets are rare, with most containing only vision-touch pairs, we
explore two strategies: automatically expanding the amount of text modality pairings and designing
aligning methods that are compatible with missing modalities. We first select representative datasets
for each sensor and then use GPT-4o to generate or expand the text modality within these datasets.
Through this method, we create new text pairs for 1.4 million samples across the four datasets.
Based on these extensive tactile datasets, we develop a modality-missing-aware touch-vision-
language contrastive learning method to leverage the paired data between touch and other modalities
for alignment. We maximize the use of paired data by selecting the largest subset for each modality
combination within the batch for multi-modal aligning. Considering a pair of uni-modal represen-
tations (xT , xV , xL) derived from uni-modal encoders, where xT ∈Rd is the touch representation,
xV ∈Rd ∪∅is the vision representation and xL ∈Rd ∪∅is the text representation. We then
perform multi-modal alignment (Radford et al., 2021) within the batch as (taking vision-language
aligning with missing modalities as an example):
LV →L = −
1
|ΩV ∩ΩL|
X
i∈ΩV ∩ΩL
log
exp(x⊤
V,i · xL,i/τ)
P
j∈Ωv∩ΩL exp(x⊤
V,i · xL,j/τ),
(3)
where B is the batchsize, ΩV , ΩL are sets of indices for the samples containing vision and text, and τ
is the scalar temperature. The computation of similar LT →V and LT →L is shown in Sec. A.2 of the
Appendix. This approach maximizes the use of paired data with missing modalities by aligning the
sample intersections between modalities. The computation of LV →T , LL→T and LL→V is similar
but in the opposite direction. We then obtain the joint aligning loss as:
Lalign = αT V
2
(LT →V + LV →T ) + αT L
2 (LT →L + LL→T ) + αV L
2
(LV →L + LL→V ),
(4)
where αT V , αT L and αV L are hyper-parameters to control the alignment strength.
4.4
CROSS-SENSOR MATCHING: EXTRACTING SENSOR-AGNOSTIC FEATURES
To fully utilize multi-sensor aligned data and build unified space by clustering multi-sensor tactile
representations of the same object, we introduce a novel cross-sensor matching task. In this task, the
model needs to determine whether two tactile images or videos are collected from the same position
on the same object. We aim to cluster representations of the same tactile information from different
sensors while performing multi-modal aligning, thereby enhancing the learning of sensor-agnostic
features and forming a unified multi-sensor representation space, as shown in Figure 3.
We treat data collected from the same object and position by two different sensors as a positive pair,
and data from different objects or positions as a negative pair. The model is trained to distinguish
between positive and negative pairs. For each image and video sample XT in our TacQuad, we
randomly select one sample from the same object at the same location captured by another sensor as
the positive sample X+
T , and choose another sample from any dataset of any other object or location
as a negative sample X−
T . We element-wisely multiply the touch representation xT with x+
T and x−
T ,
and then input each result into an MLP to compute the matching scores m+ and m−:
m+ = MLP(xT · x+
T ), m−= MLP(xT · x−
T ),
(5)
where xT , x+
T and x−
T are the representations o

=== page 7 ===
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025
This task requires the model to distinguish features with the same semantics from different sensors,
thus explicitly clustering representations with the same object information form a unified multi-
sensor representation space. As shown in Figure 3, AnyTouch, incorporating this task, differs from
existing multi-modal aligning efforts. The construction of this unified multi-sensor representation
space can explicitly reduce the gap between sensors and aid in generalizing to unseen sensors.
As both this task and multi-modal aligning focus on semantic-level features, we combine them as
the second stage, with masked modeling as the first stage. This multi-level training approach allows
us to develop unified multi-sensor representations adaptable to tasks of varying granularities.
4.5
UNIVERSAL SENSOR TOKEN
In addition to building a multi-sensor representation space, we aim to extract and store information
related to each sensor to aid the understanding of input data. More importantly, we want to integrate
and effectively transfer this information when generalizing to new sensors. Using sensor-specific
tokens is a method for extracting sensor-specific information, but this approach cannot fully transfer
information from all seen sensors when generalizing to new sensors (Yang et al., 2024).
Therefore, we propose using universal sensor tokens to integrate and store information related to
various sensors, thereby maximizing the utilization of multi-sensor data when generalizing to new
sensors. During training, we randomly replace the sensor-specific tokens with the universal sensor
tokens, expecting them to aid in understanding input data from various sensors. Specifically, we
introduce a set of learnable sensor tokens {sk}K
k=1 ∪su, where K is the number of sensor types,
sk ∈RL×d are the sensor-specific tokens for the k-th sensor, su ∈RL×d are universal sensor tokens
and L is the number of sensor tokens for each sensor. When inputting the tactile token sequence z
from the k-th sensor into the encoder Φenc to obtain its representation xT , we randomly select one
from sk and su to concatenate with z, as follows:
s = i · su + (1 −i) · sk, i ∼B(pu),
xT = Φenc(z, s),
(7)
where pu is the probability of using universal sensor tokens su. During inference, we consistently
use universal sensor tokens for data from new sensors.
4.6
TRAINING PARADIGM
Our framework has a multi-level structure, with the training of two stages conducted sequentially.
In the first stage, we simultaneously perform the reconstruction of static tactile images and dynamic
tactile videos, as well as the unique next frame prediction task for tactile videos. The loss for the
first stage Lstage1 is as follows:
Lstage1 = LS
rec + LD
rec + LD
pred.
(8)
In the second stage, we continue to use both tactile images and videos, and simultaneously perform
multi-modal aligning and cross-sensor matching tasks. Hence, the loss function for the second stage
is the sum of the losses from these two tasks:
Lstage2 = Lalign + λLmatch,
(9)
where λ is a hyper-parameter controlling the weight of cross-sensor matching task.
5
EXPERIMENTS
In this section, we explore the answers to the following questions through quantitative and qualitative
experiments: (Q1) How much benefit does the data of each sensor provide when it is integrated?
(Q2) What does the unified multi-sensor representation space constructed by AnyTouch look like?
(Q3) Is the unified multi-sensor representation more advantageous in various static and dynamic
perception tasks? We analyze Q1 in Section 5.2, expolore Q2 in Section 5.3, and answer Q3 through
comparisons with existing methods in Sections 5.4, 5.5 and 5.6.
5.1
DATASET AND BASELINES
We use 9 different tactile datasets for training, including: Touch and Go (TAG) (Yang et al., 2022),
VisGel (Li et al., 2019), Cloth (Yuan et al., 2018), ObjectFolder Real (OF Real) (Gao et al., 2023) ,
7


=== page 8 ===
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025
Table 1: The impact of adding data from multiple sensors on the seen dataset (TAG), the unseen
dataset from seen sensors (Feel), and the unseen dataset from unseen sensors (OF 1.0 and OF 2.0).
Tactile Training Data
Data
TAG
Feel
OF 1.0
OF 2.0
Volume
Material
Grasp
Material
Material
No Tactile Pre-training (CLIP)
/
52.96
72.37
41.00
73.16
TAG, VisGel, Cloth
996k
83.55 (↑30.59) 79.12 (↑6.75) 46.12 (↑5.12) 75.10 (↑1.94)
TAG, VisGel, Cloth, OF Real
2161k
79.67 (↓3.88) 79.28 (↑0.16) 47.55 (↑1.43) 75.53 (↑0.43)
TAG, VisGel, Cloth, OF Real,
2388k
79.61 (↓0.06) 79.10 (↓0.18) 48.00 (↑0.45) 75.57 (↑0.04)
TVL, SSVTP, YCB-Slide
TAG, VisGel, Cloth, OF Real,
2427k
79.70 (↑0.09) 79.40 (↑0.30) 48.75 (↑0.75) 75.66 (↑0.09)
TVL, SSVTP, YCB-Slide, Octopi
CLIP
AnyTouch
(MAE Only)
AnyTouch
(MAE + Align)
AnyTouch
(MAE + Align + Match)
GelSight Mini
DIGIT
DuraGel
Figure 4: The impact of components in AnyTouch on the multi-sensor representation space.
We use t-SNE to visualize the representations on the unused fine-grained subset of TacQuad, starting
with CLIP and sequentially incorporating the modules. Each color represents a single touch, and
samples from three sensors that touch the same position are connected by dashed lines.
TVL (Fu et al., 2024), YCB-Slide (Suresh et al., 2023) and SSVTP (Kerr et al., 2022), Octopi (Yu
et al., 2024) and the coarse-grained subset of our TacQuad. We leverage the continual frames avail-
able in these datasets for dynamic perception. We also select four datasets: TAG, Feel (Calandra
et al., 2017), ObjectFolder 1.0 (Gao et al., 2022a), ObjectFolder 2.0 (Gao et al., 2022b) as the
downstream datasets. We compare AnyTouch with several single-sensor models: VIT-LENS-2 (Lei
et al., 2024), TLV-Link (Cheng et al., 2024), and Omnibind (Lyu et al., 2024). We also compare
our method with the multi-sensor model UniTouch (Yang et al., 2024). We use the largest subset
of all data that meets the requirements of UniTouch and TLV-Link to train them, remarked as Uni-
Touch† and TLV-Link†. For the real-world dynamic perception task, we compare our method with a
multi-sensor model T3 (Zhao et al., 2024), which is trained on 3M data, more than AnyTouch. The
detailed dataset and baseline introduction are provided in Appendix A.1, A.3 and A.4.
5.2
SENSOR TRANSFERABILITY ANALYSIS (Q1)
Since we have integrated data from multiple sensors into unified representations, we aim to inves-
tigate the contributes of the knowledge transferred from each sensor’s data to downstream tasks.
Therefore, we incorporate data from GelSight, GelSlim (Donlon et al., 2018), DIGIT and GelSight
Mini into the training of AnyTouch to obtain four different models, and compare them across four
downstream tasks. As shown in Table 1, training with only GelSight data significantly improves
performance on downstream datasets for all sensors, compared to the CLIP model which has not
encountered any tactile data. This indicates that tactile representation pre-training is crucial and
transferable across new sensors. After sequentially integrating data from GelSlim, DIGIT, and Gel-
Sight Mini into the training, we observe performance improvements across the three unseen datasets,
with greater enhancements for unseen sensors than seen sensors. This suggests that the knowledge
from the data of GelSlim, DIGIT, and GelSight Mini can transfer to the GelSight and other sensors.
However, we also observe two interesting phenomena: (1) In the material classification task of the
seen dataset TAG, the model trained solely on GelSight data performs the best, while incorporating
data from more sensors leads to a performance drop. This is because TAG is included in the pre-
training data and integrating more data reduces the proportion of TAG data in pre-training. This
aligns with the CLIP paper’s finding that greater overlap between the downstream task dataset and
the pre-training dataset may improve performance. (2) Although the integrated data volume from
8


=== page 9 ===
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025
Table 2: Evaluation of static perception capabilities on the seen sensor (GelSight). *Note that
Feel is seen for the corresponding UniTouch and AnyTouch models. ‡Note that original TLV-Link
uses frames after grasping which are much easier in Feel, whereas other models use frames during
grasping. AnyTouch achieves a result of 99.0 using frames after grasping.
Method
Tactile Training Data
Touch and Go
Feel
Material
Roughness
Hardness
Grasp
CLIP
/
52.96
84.09
88.34
72.37
VIT-LENS-2
TAG
63.0
85.1
92.0
-
TLV-Link
Touch100k
67.2
84.7
91.3
94.5‡
OmniBind
TAG
67.45
-
-
-
UniTouch
TAG, Feel*, YCB, OF 2.0
61.3
-
-
82.3
TLV-Link†
TAG, TVL, SSVTP, OF Real, TacQuad
74.12
85.94
94.18
76.97
AnyTouch
TAG, Feel*, YCB, OF 2.0
82.74
86.01
94.24
87.17
AnyTouch
TAG, VisGel, Cloth, TVL, SSVTP,
80.82
86.74
94.68
80.53
YCB-Slide, OF Real , Octopi, TacQuad
DIGIT is larger, the benefits are less compared to incorporating data from GelSight Mini. This may
suggest that the images from DIGIT differ more from the images of GelSight and other sensors than
the images from GelSight Mini do due to the hardware difference.
5.3
MULTI-SENSOR REPRESENTATION SPACE (Q2)
To verify whether AnyTouch clusters the representations with the same tactile information from
different sensors together as expected, we use t-SNE (Van der Maaten & Hinton, 2008) to visualize
the tactile representations. We extract one aligned contact frame from each sensor for the 30 touches
in the unused fine-grained subset of TacQuad. We input these samples into the CLIP model and the
AnyTouch model which gradually incorporates masked modeling, multi-modal aligning, and cross-
sensor matching, and visualize their representations in Figure 4. Due to the lack of exposure to tactile
images, CLIP struggles to distinguish the same tactile information from different sensors, instead
clustering samples by sensor. After introducing masked modeling, the representations become more
centralized within each sensor, as this method focuses on pixel-level tactile features, which are
sensor-dependent. However, this is not ideal for cross-sensor generalization, as we want multi-sensor
tactile representations to cluster based on the object’s tactile information they represent, minimizing
sensor gaps. After incorporating multi-modal aligning, the multi-sensor tactile representations begin
to blend and cluster by the objects they represent. This indicates that cross-sensor generalization is
beginning to emerge, but there is still a distinct tendency for sensor-specific clustering. With our
cross-sensor matching task, the representations from different sensors fully mix in a shared multi-
sensor space, clearly clustering by the object’s tactile information. This indicates that our model
possesses the ability to extract sensor-agnostic features, enabling generalization to unseen sensors.
5.4
STATIC PERCEPTION ON SEEN SENSORS (Q3)
To validate the benefit of unified multi-sensor representations in transferring knowledge from multi-
ple sensor data to seen sensors, we compared it to baselines on the seen dataset TAG and the unseen
dataset Feel from the GelSight sensor. Since UniTouch uses different training data, we also train an
AnyTouch model with the same data as UniTouch to ensure a fair comparison. As shown in Table 2,
the TLV-Link† trained with multi-sensor data outperforms all single-sensor models and the original
TLV-Link in all three tasks of TAG. The AnyTouch trained with the same data as UniTouch, outper-
forms UniTouch in all four tasks. With the integration of dynamic perception and more multi-sensor
data, AnyTouch trained on all data achieved the best results in hardness and roughness classifica-
tion in TAG and comparable results to UniTouch in Feel, despite UniTouch having seen this data.
These demonstrate the static perception capabilities of our framework on seen sensors. Notably,
the original TLV-Link uses frames after grasping, while other models use frames during grasping.
AnyTouch achieves a result of 99.0 using frames after grasping. It is worth mentioning that the Any-
Touch trained with less data outperforms the one trained with all data in TAG mat

=== page 10 ===
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025
Table 3: Evaluation of static perception capabilities on unseen sensors (TACTO and Taxim) using
linear probing. *Note that OF 2.0 is seen for the corresponding UniTouch and AnyTouch models.
Method
Tactile Training Data
ObjectFolder 1.0
ObjectFolder 2.0
Material
Material
CLIP
/
41.00
73.16
UniTouch
TAG, Feel, YCB-Slide, OF 2.0*
41.3
85.4
UniTouch†
TAG, VisGel, TVL
47.25
75.29
SSVTP, OF Real , TacQuad
AnyTouch
TAG, Feel, YCB-Slide, OF 2.0*
46.50
85.87
AnyTouch
TAG, VisGel, Cloth, TVL, SSVTP,
49.62
76.02
YCB-Slide, OF Real , Octopi, TacQuad
Table 4: Evaluation on the real-world pouring task
using GelSight Mini.
Method
Dynamic
Mean Error (g) ↓
Perception
Fine-tune
Freeze
CLIP
✘
5.22
49.1
T3
✘
2.33
9.74
AnyTouch
✘
2.45
9.60
AnyTouch
✔
1.56
8.22
Figure 5: Setup of real-world pouring task.
are much simpler, and the tactile text descriptions in other datasets also include these two binary
attributes, which have less impact on the data distribution.
5.5
STATIC PERCEPTION ON UNSEEN SENSORS (Q3)
To verify the generalization of our method on unseen sensors, we compare it with the multi-sensor
models UniTouch and UniTouch† on two datasets from unseen sensors, OF 1.0 and OF 2.0. As
shown in Table 3, the AnyTouch trained on the same data as Unitouch outperforms it on both
datasets, demonstrating the static perception capability of our method across different sensors. Both
UniTouch and AnyTouch, perform better on the unseen OF 1.0 dataset, confirming that integrating
multi-sensor data aids generalization to unseen sensors. In addition, the AnyTouch trained on the
full dataset achieves the highest performance on the unseen OF 1.0, demonstrating that learning
sensor-agnostic semantic-level tactile features and constructing unified multi-sensor representation
space is an effective approach for cross-sensor transfer.
5.6
REAL WORLD DYNAMIC PERCEPTION (Q3)
To test the dynamic perception capability of our method in real-world object manipulation tasks, we
conduct experiments on a real-world task: fine-grained pouring, as shown in Figure 5. The detailed
task setup is located at A.8. We compare AnyTouch with a recent multi-sensor model T3 and use a
static-only AnyTouch model trained solely on tactile images as a baseline. Neither model includes
modules specifically designed for dynamic perception. We conduct 10 real-world test runs and
record the error between the poured mass and the target mass for each test. We then average the error
across the test runs to get the ”mean error” and use it as the metric, as shown in Table 4. When the
tactile encoder is frozen and only the policy network is fine-tuned, CLIP, which has not seen tactile
images, struggles with the task, highlighting the challenges of fine-grained dynamic perception. In
contrast, the static-only AnyTouch performed comparably to T3 which was trained on more data.
After integrating dynamic perception capabilities, AnyTouch achieved the best performance. This
demonstrates the importance of learning unified multi-sensor representations from both static and
dynamic perspectives for completing various tasks including real-world tasks.
6
CONCLUSION
In this paper, we collect TacQuad, an aligned multi-modal multi-sensor tactile dataset that enables
the explicit integration of various sensors. Based on this, we present AnyTouch, a unified multi-
sensor tactile representation learning framework from the perspectives of both static and dynamic
perception. We also explore the multi-sensor representation space and sensor transferability.
10


