=== PAGE 1 ===
Learning Fine-Grained Bimanual Manipulation with
Low-Cost Hardware
Tony Z. Zhao1
Vikash Kumar3
Sergey Levine2
Chelsea Finn1
1 Stanford University 2 UC Berkeley 3 Meta
Fig. 1: ALOHA
: A Low-cost Open-source Hardware System for Bimanual Teleoperation. The whole system costs <$20k with off-the-shelf
robots and 3D printed components. Left: The user teleoperates by backdriving the leader robots, with the follower robots mirroring the motion.
Right: ALOHA is capable of precise, contact-rich, and dynamic tasks. We show examples of both teleoperated and learned skills.
Abstract—Fine manipulation tasks, such as threading cable ties
or slotting a battery, are notoriously difﬁcult for robots because
they require precision, careful coordination of contact forces,
and closed-loop visual feedback. Performing these tasks typically
requires high-end robots, accurate sensors, or careful calibration,
which can be expensive and difﬁcult to set up. Can learning
enable low-cost and imprecise hardware to perform these ﬁne
manipulation tasks? We present a low-cost system that performs
end-to-end imitation learning directly from real demonstrations,
collected with a custom teleoperation interface. Imitation learn-
ing, however, presents its own challenges, particularly in high-
precision domains: errors in the policy can compound over time,
and human demonstrations can be non-stationary. To address
these challenges, we develop a simple yet novel algorithm, Action
Chunking with Transformers (ACT), which learns a generative
model over action sequences. ACT allows the robot to learn 6
difﬁcult tasks in the real world, such as opening a translucent
condiment cup and slotting a battery with 80-90% success,
with only 10 minutes worth of demonstrations. Project website:
tonyzhaozh.github.io/aloha
I. INTRODUCTION
Fine manipulation tasks involve precise, closed-loop feed-
back and require high degrees of hand-eye coordination to
adjust and re-plan in response to changes in the environment.
Examples of such manipulation tasks include opening the lid
of a condiment cup or slotting a battery, which involve delicate
operations such as pinching, prying, and tearing rather than
broad-stroke motions such as picking and placing. Take opening
the lid of a condiment cup in Figure 1 as an example, where
the cup is initialized upright on the table: the right gripper
needs to ﬁrst tip it over, and nudge it into the opened left
gripper. Then the left gripper closes gently and lifts the cup
off the table. Next, one of the right ﬁngers approaches the
cup from below and pries the lid open. Each of these steps
requires high precision, delicate hand-eye coordination, and
rich contact. Millimeters of error would lead to task failure.
Existing systems for ﬁne manipulation use expensive robots
and high-end sensors for precise state estimation [29, 60, 32,
41]. In this work, we seek to develop a low-cost system for ﬁne
manipulation that is, in contrast, accessible and reproducible.
However, low-cost hardware is inevitably less precise than
high-end platforms, making the sensing and planning challenge
more pronounced. One promising direction to resolve this is
to incorporate learning into the system. Humans also do not
have industrial-grade proprioception [71], and yet we are able
to perform delicate tasks by learning from closed-loop visual
feedback and actively compensating for errors. In our system,
we therefore train an end-to-end policy that directly maps
RGB images from commodity web cameras to the actions.
This pixel-to-action formulation is particularly suitable for
ﬁne manipulation, because ﬁne manipulation often involves
objects with complex physical properties, such that learning the
manipulation policy is much simpler than modeling the whole
environment. Take the condiment cup example: modeling the
contact when nudging the cup, and also the deformation when
prying open the lid involves complex physics on a large number
of degrees of freedom. Designing a model accurate enough for
planning would require signiﬁcant research and task speciﬁc
engineering efforts. In contrast, the policy of nudging and
opening the cup is much simpler, since a closed-loop policy
can react to different positions of the cup and lid rather than
precisely anticipating how it will move in advance.
arXiv:2304.13705v1  [cs.RO]  23 Apr 2023

=== PAGE 2 ===
Training an end-to-end policy, however, presents its own
challenges. The performance of the policy depends heavily
on the training data distribution, and in the case of ﬁne
manipulation, high-quality human demonstrations can provide
tremendous value by allowing the system to learn from human
dexterity. We thus build a low-cost yet dexterous teleoperation
system for data collection, and a novel imitation learning
algorithm that learns effectively from the demonstrations. We
overview each component in the following two paragraphs.
Teleoperation system. We devise a teleoperation setup with
two sets of low-cost, off-the-shelf robot arms. They are
approximately scaled versions of each other, and we use joint-
space mapping for teleoperation. We augment this setup with
3D printed components for easier backdriving, leading to a
highly capable teleoperation system within a $20k budget. We
showcase its capabilities in Figure 1, including teleoperation
of precise tasks such as threading a zip tie, dynamic tasks such
as juggling a ping pong ball, and contact-rich tasks such as
assembling the chain in the NIST board #2 [4].
Imitation learning algorithm. Tasks that require precision and
visual feedback present a signiﬁcant challenge for imitation
learning, even with high-quality demonstrations. Small errors
in the predicted action can incur large differences in the state,
exacerbating the “compounding error” problem of imitation
learning [47, 64, 29]. To tackle this, we take inspiration from
action chunking, a concept in psychology that describes how
sequences of actions are grouped together as a chunk, and
executed as one unit [35]. In our case, the policy predicts the
target joint positions for the next k timesteps, rather than just
one step at a time. This reduces the effective horizon of the task
by k-fold, mitigating compounding errors. Predicting action
sequences also helps tackle temporally correlated confounders
[61], such as pauses in demonstrations that are hard to model
with Markovian single-step policies. To further improve the
smoothness of the policy, we propose temporal ensembling,
which queries the policy more frequently and averages across
the overlapping action chunks. We implement action chunking
policy with Transformers [65], an architecture designed for
sequence modeling, and train it as a conditional VAE (CVAE)
[55, 33] to capture the variability in human data. We name our
method Action Chunking with Transformers (ACT), and ﬁnd
that it signiﬁcantly outperforms previous imitation learning
algorithms on a range of simulated and real-world ﬁne
manipulation tasks.
The key contribution of this paper is a low-cost system for
learning ﬁne manipulation, comprising a teleoperation system
and a novel imitation learning algorithm. The teleoperation
system, despite its low cost, enables tasks with high precision
and rich contacts. The imitation learning algorithm, Action
Chunking with Transformers (ACT), is capable of learning pre-
cise, close-loop behavior and drastically outperforms previous
methods. The synergy between these two parts allows learning
of 6 ﬁne manipulation skills directly in the real-world, such as
opening a translucent condiment cup and slotting a battery with
80-90% success, from only 10 minutes or 50 demonstration
trajectories.
II. RELATED WORK
Imitation learning for robotic manipulation. Imitation learn-
ing allows a robot to directly learn from experts. Behavioral
cloning (BC) [44] is one of the simplest imitation learning
algorithms, casting imitation as supervised learning from
observations to actions. Many works have then sought to
improve BC, for example by incorporating history with various
architectures [39, 49, 26, 7], using a different training objective
[17, 42], and including regularization [46]. Other works
emphasize the multi-task or few-shot aspect of imitation
learning [14, 25, 11], leveraging language [51, 52, 26, 7], or
exploiting the speciﬁc task structure [43, 68, 28, 52]. Scaling
these imitation learning algorithms with more data has led
to impressive systems that can generalize to new objects,
instructions, or scenes [15, 26, 7, 32]. In this work, we focus
on building an imitation learning system that is low-cost yet
capable of performing delicate, ﬁne manipulation tasks. We
tackle this from both hardware and software, by building a
high-performance teleoperation system, and a novel imitation
learning algorithm that drastically improves previous methods
on ﬁne manipulation tasks.
Addressing compounding errors. A major shortcoming of BC
is compounding errors, where errors from previous timesteps
accumulate and cause the robot to drift off of its training
distribution, leading to hard-to-recover states [47, 64]. This
problem is particularly prominent in the ﬁne manipulation
setting [29]. One way to mitigate compounding errors is to
allow additional on-policy interactions and expert corrections,
such as DAgger [47] and its variants [30, 40, 24]. However,
expert annotation can be time-consuming and unnatural with
a teleoperation interface [29]. One could also inject noise at
demonstration collection time to obtain datasets with corrective
behavior [36], but for ﬁne manipulation, such noise injection
can directly lead to task failure, reducing the dexterity of
teleoperation system. To circumvent these issues, previous
works generate synthetic correction data in an ofﬂine manner
[16, 29, 70]. While they are limited to settings where low-
dimensional states are available, or a speciﬁc type of task like
grasping. Due to these limitations, we need to address the
compounding error problem from a different angle, compatible
with high-dimensional visual observations. We propose to
reduce the effective horizon of tasks through action chunking,
i.e., predicting an action sequence instead of a single action,
and then ensemble across overlapping action chunks to produce
trajectories that are both accurate and smooth.
Bimanual manipulation. Bimanual manipulation has a long
history in robotics, and has gained popularity with the lowering
of hardware costs. Early works tackle bimanual manipulation
from a classical control perspective, with known environment
dynamics [54, 48], but designing such models can be time-
consuming, and they may not be accurate for objects with
complex physical properties. More recently, learning has been
incorporated into bimanual systems, such as reinforcement
learning [9, 10], imitating human demonstrations [34, 37, 59,
67, 32], or learning to predict key points that chain together

=== PAGE 3 ===
top camera
front camera
wrist camera
wrist camera
grip tape
see-through gripper
adjustable velcro
50cm
60cm
#Dofs
Reach
Span
Repeatability
Accuracy
Working Payload
6+gripper
750mm
1500mm
1mm
5-8mm
750g
ViperX 6dof Arm (follower)
red: bimanual workspace
Fig. 3: Left: Camera viewpoints of the front, top, and two wrist cameras, together with an illustration of the bimanual workspace of ALOHA.
Middle: Detailed view of the “handle and scissor” mechanism and custom grippers. Right: Technical spec of the ViperX 6dof robot [1].
motor primitives [20, 19, 50]. Some of the works also focus
on ﬁne-grained manipulation tasks such as knot untying, cloth
ﬂattening, or even threading a needle [19, 18, 31], while using
robots that are considerably more expensive, e.g. the da Vinci
surgical robot or ABB YuMi. Our work turns to low-cost
hardware, e.g. arms that cost around $5k each, and seeks to
enable them to perform high-precision, closed-loop tasks. Our
teleoperation setup is most similar to Kim et al. [32], which
also uses joint-space mapping between the leader and follower
robots. Unlike this previous system, we do not make use of
special encoders, sensors, or machined components. We build
our system with only off-the-shelf robots and a handful of 3D
printed parts, allowing non-experts to assemble it in less than
2 hours.
III. ALOHA: A LOW-COST OPEN-SOURCE HARDWARE
SYSTEM FOR BIMANUAL TELEOPERATION
We seek to develop an accessible and high-performance
teleoperation system for ﬁne manipulation. We summarize our
design considerations into the following 5 principles.
1) Low-cost: The entire system should be within budget for
most robotic labs, comparable to a single industrial arm.
2) Versatile: It can be applied to a wide range of ﬁne
manipulation tasks with real-world objects.
3) User-friendly: The system should be intuitive, reliable,
and easy to use.
4) Repairable: The setup can be easily repaired by re-
searchers, when it inevitably breaks.
5) Easy-to-build: It can be quickly assembled by researchers,
with easy-to-source materials.
When choosing the robot to use, principles 1, 4, and 5 lead
us to build a bimanual parallel-jaw grippers setup with two
ViperX 6-DoF robot arms [1, 66]. We do not employ dexterous
hands due to price and maintenance considerations. The ViperX
arm used has a working payload of 750g and 1.5m span, with
an accuracy of 5-8mm. The robot is modular and simple to
repair: in the case of motor failure, the low-cost Dynamixel
motors can be easily replaced. The robot can be purchased
off-the-shelf for around $5600. The OEM ﬁngers, however,
are not versatile enough to handle ﬁne manipulation tasks. We
thus design our own 3D printed “see-through” ﬁngers and ﬁt
it with gripping tape (Fig 3). This allows for good visibility
when performing delicate operations, and robust grip even with
thin plastic ﬁlms.
We then seek to design a teleoperation system that is
maximally user-friendly around the ViperX robot. Instead
of mapping the hand pose captured by a VR controller or
camera to the end-effector pose of the robot, i.e. task-space
mapping, we use direct joint-space mapping from a smaller
robot, WidowX, manufactured by the same company and costs
$3300 [2]. The user teleoperates by backdriving the smaller
WidowX (“the leader”), whose joints are synchronized with the
larger ViperX (“the follower”). When developing the setup, we
noticed a few beneﬁts of using joint-space mapping compared
to task-space. (1) Fine manipulation often requires operating
near singularities of the robot, which in our case has 6 degrees
of freedom and no redundancy. Off-the-shelf inverse kinematics
(IK) fails frequently in this setting. Joint space mapping, on
the other hand, guarantees high-bandwidth control within the
joint limits, while also requiring less computation and reducing
latency. (2) The weight of the leader robot prevents the user
from moving too fast, and also dampens small vibrations.
We notice better performance on precise tasks with joint-
space mapping rather than holding a VR controller. To further
improve the teleoperation experience, we design a 3D-printed
“handle and scissor” mechanism that can be retroﬁtted to the
leader robot (Fig 3). It reduces the force required from the
operator to backdrive the motor, and allows for continuous
control of the gripper, instead of binary opening or closing.
We also design a rubber band load balancing mechanism that
partially counteracts the gravity on the leader side. It reduces the
effort needed from the operator and makes longer teleoperation
sessions (e.g. >30 minutes) possible. We include more details
about the setup in the project website.
The rest of the setup includes a robot cage with 20×20mm
aluminum extrusions, reinforced by crossing steel cables. There
is a total of four Logitech C922x webcams, each streaming
480×640 RGB images. Two of the webcams are mounted on
the wrist of the follower robots, allowing for a close-up view
of the grippers. The remaining two cameras are mounted on the
front and at the top respectively (Fig 3). Both the teleoperation
and data recording happen at 50Hz.
With the design considerations above, we build the bimanual
teleoperation setup ALOHA within a 20k USD budget, compa-

=== PAGE 4 ===
transformer
encoder
…
…
transformer
decoder
joints
cam 1
cam 4
position embeddings (ﬁxed)
action sequence
480X640X3
1
2
3
4
CNN
+PosEmb
…
transformer
encoder
…
action sequence + PosEmb
joints
[CLS]
…
style variable
…
…
…
…
Fig. 4: Architecture of Action Chunking with Transformers (ACT). We train ACT as a Conditional VAE (CVAE), which has an encoder and a
decoder. Left: The encoder of the CVAE compresses action sequence and joint observation into z, the style variable. The encoder is discarded
at test time. Right: The decoder or policy of ACT synthesizes images from multiple viewpoints, joint positions, and z with a transformer
encoder, and predicts a sequence of actions with a transformer decoder. z is simply set to the mean of the prior (i.e. zero) at test time.
Action Chunking + Temporal Ensemble
t=0
t=1
t=2
t=3
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
t=0
t=4
…
7
Action Chunking
x [0.5, 0.3, 0.2, 0.1] =
Fig. 5: We employ both Action Chunking and Temporal Ensembling
when applying actions, instead of interleaving observing and executing.
rable to a single research arm such as Franka Emika Panda.
ALOHA enables the teleoperation of:
• Precise tasks such as threading zip cable ties, picking credit
cards out of wallets, and opening or closing ziploc bags.
• Contact-rich tasks such as inserting 288-pin RAM into
a computer motherboard, turning pages of a book, and
assembling the chains and belts in the NIST board #2 [4]
• Dynamic tasks such as juggling a ping pong ball with a
real ping pong paddle, balancing the ball without it falling
off, and swinging open plastic bags in the air.
Skills such as threading a zip tie, inserting RAM, and juggling
ping pong ball, to our knowledge, are not available for existing
teleoperation systems with 5-10x the budget [21, 5]. We include
a more detailed price & capability comparison in Appendix A,
as well as more skills that ALOHA is capable of in Figure 9.
To make ALOHA more accessible, we open-source all software
and hardware with a detailed tutorial covering 3D printing,
assembling the frame to software installations. You can ﬁnd
the tutorial on the project website.
IV. ACTION CHUNKING WITH TRANSFORMERS
As we will see in Section V, existing imitation learning
algorithms perform poorly on ﬁne-grained tasks that require
high-frequency control and closed-loop feedback. We therefore
develop a novel algorithm, Action Chunking with Transformers
(ACT), to leverage the data collected by ALOHA. We ﬁrst
summarize the pipeline of training ACT, then dive into each
of the design choices.
To train ACT on a new task, we ﬁrst collect human
demonstrations using ALOHA. We record the joint positions of
the leader robots (i.e. input from the human operator) and use
them as actions. It is important to use the leader joint positions
instead of the follower’s, because the amount of force applied
is implicitly deﬁned by the difference between them, through
the low-level PID controller. The observations are composed of
the current joint positions of follower robots and the image feed
from 4 cameras. Next, we train ACT to predict the sequence of
future actions given the current observations. An action here
corresponds to the target joint positions for both arms in the
next time step. Intuitively, ACT tries to imitate what a human
operator would do in the following time steps given current
observations. These target joint positions are then tracked by
the low-level, high-frequency PID controller inside Dynamixel
motors. At test time, we load the policy that achieves the
lowest validation loss and roll it out in the environment. The
main challenge that arises is compounding errors, where errors
from previous actions lead to states that are outside of training
distribution.
A. Action Chunking and Temporal Ensemble
To combat the compounding errors of imitation learning in a
way that is compatible with pixel-to-action policies (Figure II),
we seek to reduce the effective horizon of long trajectories
collected at high frequency. We are inspired by action chunking,
a neuroscience concept where individual actions are grouped
together and executed as one unit, making them more efﬁcient
to store and execute [35]. Intuitively, a chunk of actions could
correspond to grasping a corner of the candy wrapper or
inserting a battery into the slot. In our implementation, we
ﬁx the chunk size to be k: every k steps, the agent receives
an observation, generates the next k actions, and executes the
actions in sequence (Figure 5). This implies a k-fold reduction
in the effective horizon of the task. Concretely, the policy
models πθ(at:t+k|st) instead of πθ(at|st). Chunking can also
help model non-Markovian behavior in human demonstrations.
Speciﬁcally, a single-step policy would struggle with temporally
correlated confounders, such as pauses in the middle of a
demonstration [61], since the behavior not only depends on
the state, but also the timestep. Action chunking can mitigate

=== PAGE 5 ===
Algorithm 1 ACT Training
1: Given: Demo dataset D, chunk size k, weight β.
2: Let at, ot represent action and observation at timestep t, ¯ot
represent ot without image observations.
3: Initialize encoder qφ(z|at:t+k, ¯ot)
4: Initialize decoder πθ(ˆat:t+k|ot, z)
5: for iteration n = 1, 2, ... do
6:
Sample ot, at:t+k from D
7:
Sample z from qφ(z|at:t+k, ¯ot)
8:
Predict ˆat:t+k from πθ(ˆat:t+k|ot, z)
9:
Lreconst = MSE(ˆat:t+k, at:t+k)
10:
Lreg = DKL(qφ(z|at:t+k, ¯ot) ∥N(0, I ))
11:
Update θ, φ with ADAM and L = Lreconst + βLreg
Algorithm 2 ACT Inference
1: Given: trained πθ, episode length T, weight m.
2: Initialize FIFO buffers B[0 : T], where B[t] stores actions
predicted for timestep t.
3: for timestep t = 1, 2, ...T do
4:
Predict ˆat:t+k with πθ(ˆat:t+k|ot, z) where z = 0
5:
Add ˆat:t+k to buffers B[t : t + k] respectively
6:
Obtain current step actions At = B[t]
7:
Apply at = P
i wiAt[i]/ P
i wi, with wi = exp(−m ∗i)
this issue when the confounder is within a chunk, without
introducing the causal confusion issue for history-conditioned
policies [12].
A naïve implementation of action chunking can be sub-
optimal: a new environment observation is incorporated
abruptly every k steps and can result in jerky robot motion.
To improve smoothness and avoid discrete switching between
executing and observing, we query the policy at every timestep.
This makes different action chunks overlap with each other,
and at a given timestep there will be more than one predicted
action. We illustrate this in Figure 5 and propose a temporal
ensemble to combine these predictions. Our temporal ensemble
performs a weighted average over these predictions with an
exponential weighting scheme wi = exp(−m ∗i), where w0
is the weight for the oldest action. The speed for incorporating
new observation is governed by m, where a smaller m means
faster incorporation. We note that unlike typical smoothing,
where the current action is aggregated with actions in adjacent
timesteps, which leads to bias, we aggregate actions predicted
for the same timestep. This procedure also incurs no additional
training cost, only extra inference-time computation. In practice,
we ﬁnd both action chunking and temporal ensembling to be
important for the success of ACT, which produces precise and
smooth motion. We discuss these components in more detail
in the ablation studies in Subsection VI-A.
B. Modeling human data
Another challenge that arises is learning from noisy human
demonstrations. Given the same observation, a human can use
different trajectories to solve the task. Humans will also be
more stochastic in regions where precision matters less [38].
Thus, it is important for the policy to focus on regions where
high precision matters. We tackle this problem by training our
action chunking policy as a generative model. Speciﬁcally, we
train the policy as a conditional variational autoencoder (CVAE)
[55], to generate an action sequence conditioned on current
observations. The CVAE has two components: a CVAE encoder
and a CVAE decoder, illustrated on the left and right side of
Figure 4 respectively. The CVAE encoder only serves to train
the CVAE decoder (the policy) and is discarded at test time.
Speciﬁcally, the CVAE encoder predicts the mean and variance
of the style variable z’s distribution, which is parameterized as
a diagonal Gaussian, given the current observation and action
sequence as inputs. For faster training in practice, we leave out
the image observations and only condition on the proprioceptive
observation and the action sequence. The CVAE decoder, i.e.
the policy, conditions on both z and the current observations
(images + joint positions) to predict the action sequence. At
test time, we set z to be the mean of the prior distribution i.e.
zero to deterministically decode. The whole model is trained to
maximize the log-likelihood of demonstration action chunks, i.e.
minθ −P
st,at:t+k∈D log πθ(at:t+k|st), with the standard VAE
objective which has two terms: a reconstruction loss and a term
that regularizes the encoder to a Gaussian prior. Following [23],
we weight the second term with a hyperparameter β. Intuitively,
higher β will result in less information transmitted in z [62].
Overall, we found the CVAE objective to be essential in
learning precise tasks from human demonstrations. We include
a more detailed discussion in Subsection VI-B.
C. Implementing ACT
We implement the CVAE encoder and decoder with trans-
formers, as transformers are designed for both synthesizing in-
formation across a sequence and generating new sequences. The
CVAE encoder is implemented with a BERT-like transformer
encoder [13]. The inputs to the encoder are the current joint
positions and the target action sequence of length k from the
demonstration dataset, prepended by a learned “[CLS]” token
similar to BERT. This forms a k+2 length input (Figure 4 left).
After passing through the transformer, the feature corresponding
to “[CLS]” is used to predict the mean and variance of the “style
variable” z, which is then used as input to the decoder. The
CVAE decoder (i.e. the policy) takes the current observations
and z as the input, and predicts the next k actions (Figure 4
right). We use ResNet image encoders, a transformer encoder,
and a transformer decoder to implement the CVAE decoder.
Intuitively, the transformer encoder synthesizes information
from different camera viewpoints, the joint positions, and the
style variable, and the transformer decoder generates a coherent
action sequence. The observation includes 4 RGB images, each
at 480 × 640 resolution, and joint positions for two robot arms
(7+7=14 DoF in total). The action space is the absolute joint
positions for two robots, a 14-dimensional vector. Thus with
action chunking, the policy outputs a k × 14 tensor given
the current observation. The policy ﬁrst process the images
with ResNet18 backbones [22], which convert 480 × 640 × 3
RGB images into 15 × 20 × 512 feature maps. We then ﬂatten
along the spatial dimension to obtain a sequence of 300 × 512.
To preserve the spatial information, we add a 2D sinusoidal

=== PAGE 6 ===
position embedding to the feature sequence [8]. Repeating this
for all 4 images gives a feature sequence of 1200 × 512 in
dimension. We then append two more features: the current
joint positions and the “style variable” z. They are projected
from their original dimensions to 512 through linear layers
respectively. Thus, the input to the transformer encoder is
1202×512. The transformer decoder conditions on the encoder
output through cross-attention, where the input sequence is a
ﬁxed position embedding, with dimensions k × 512, and the
keys and values are coming from the encoder. This gives the
transformer decoder an output dimension of k × 512, which is
then down-projected with an MLP into k × 14, corresponding
to the predicted target joint positions for the next k steps. We
use L1 loss for reconstruction instead of the more common
L2 loss: we noted that L1 loss leads to more precise modeling
of the action sequence. We also noted degraded performance
when using delta joint positions as actions instead of target
joint positions. We include a detailed architecture diagram in
Appendix C.
We summarize the training and inference of ACT in
Algorithms 1 and 2. The model has around 80M parameters,
and we train from scratch for each task. The training takes
around 5 hours on a single 11G RTX 2080 Ti GPU, and the
inference time is around 0.01 seconds on the same machine.
V. EXPERIMENTS
We present experiments to evaluate ACT’s performance on
ﬁne manipulation tasks. For ease of reproducibility, we build
two simulated ﬁne manipulation tasks in MuJoCo [63], in
addition to 6 real-world tasks with ALOHA. We provide videos
for each task on the project website.
A. Tasks
All 8 tasks require ﬁne-grained, bimanual manipulation, and
are illustrated in Figure 6. For Slide Ziploc, the right gripper
needs to accurately grasp the slider of the ziploc bag and open
it, with the left gripper securing the body of the bag. For Slot
Battery, the right gripper needs to ﬁrst place the battery into
the slot of the remote controller, then using the tip of ﬁngers
to delicately push in the edge of the battery, until it is fully
inserted. Because the spring inside the battery slot causes the
remote controller to move in the opposite direction during
insertion, the left gripper pushes down on the remote to keep
it in place. For Open Cup, the goal is to open the lid of a
small condiment cup. Because of the cup’s small size, the
grippers cannot grasp the body of the cup by just approaching
it from the side. Therefore we leverage both grippers: the right
ﬁngers ﬁrst lightly tap near the edge of the cup to tip it over,
and then nudge it into the open left gripper. This nudging
step requires high precision and closing the loop on visual
perception. The left gripper then closes gently and lifts the cup
off the table, followed by the right ﬁnger prying open the lid,
which also requires precision to not miss the lid or damage
the cup. The goal of Thread Velcro is to insert one end of
a velcro cable tie into the small loop attached to other end.
The left gripper needs to ﬁrst pick up the velcro tie from the
table, followed by the right gripper pinching the tail of the
tie in mid-air. Then, both arms coordinate to insert one end
of the velcro tie into the other in mid-air. The loop measures
3mm x 25mm, while the velcro tie measures 2mm x 10-25mm
depending on the position. For this task to be successful, the
robot must use visual feedback to correct for perturbations
with each grasp, as even a few millimeters of error during the
ﬁrst grasp will compound in the second grasp mid-air, giving
more than a 10mm deviation in the insertion phase. For Prep
Tape, the goal is to hang a small segment of the tape on the
edge of a cardboard box. The right gripper ﬁrst grasps the tape
and cuts it with the tape dispenser’s blade, and then hands
the tape segment to the left gripper mid-air. Next, both arms
approach the box, the left arm gently lays the tape segment
on the box surface, and the right ﬁngers push down on the
tape to prevent slipping, followed by the left arm opening its
gripper to release the tape. Similar to Thread Velcro, this task
requires multiple steps of delicate coordination between the
two arms. For Put On Shoe, the goal is to put the shoe on a
ﬁxed manniquin foot, and secure it with the shoe’s velcro strap.
The arms would ﬁrst need to grasp the tongue and collar of
the shoe respectively, lift it up and approach the foot. Putting
the shoe on is challenging because of the tight ﬁtting: the arms
would need to coordinate carefully to nudge the foot in, and
both grasps need to be robust enough to counteract the friction
between the sock and shoe. Then, the left arm goes around to
the bottom of the shoe to support it from dropping, followed by
the right arm ﬂipping the velcro strap and pressing it against
the shoe to secure. The task is only considered successful if
the shoe clings to the foot after both arms releases. For the
simulated task Transfer Cube, the right arm needs to ﬁrst pick
up the red cube lying on the table, then place it inside the
gripper of the other arm. Due to the small clearance between
the cube and the left gripper (around 1cm), small errors could
result in collisions and task failure. For the simulated task
Bimanual Insertion, the left and right arms need to pick up
the socket and peg respectively, and then insert in mid-air so
the peg touches the “pins” inside the socket. The clearance is
around 5mm in the insertion phase. For all 8 tasks, the initial
placement of the objects is either varied randomly along the
15cm white reference line (real-world tasks), or uniformly in
2D regions (simulated tasks). We provide illustrations of both
the initial positions and the subtasks in Figure 6 and 7. Our
evaluation will additionally report the performance for each of
these subtasks.
In addition to the delicate bimanual control required to
solve these tasks, the objects we use also present a signiﬁcant
perception challenge. For example, the ziploc bag is largely
transparent, with a thin blue sealing line. Both the wrinkles
on the bag and the reﬂective candy wrappers inside can vary
during the randomization, and distract the perception system.
Other transparent or translucent objects include the tape and
both the lid and body of the condiment cup, making them
hard to perceive precisely and ill-suited for depth cameras. The
black table top also creates a low-contrast against many objects
of interest, such as the black velcro cable tie and the black

=== PAGE 7 ===
Slide Ziploc: Open the ziploc bag that is standing upright on the table. The bag is randomized along the 15cm white line. It is dropped from ~5cm 
above the table to randomize the deformation, which affects the height and appearance of the bag. The left arm first grasps the bag body (Subtask#1 
Grasp) followed by the right arm pinching the slider (Subtask #2 Pinch). Then the right arm moves right to unzip the bag (Subtask #3 Open).
Slot Battery: Insert the battery into the remote controller. The controller is randomized along the 15cm white line. The battery is initialized in 
roughly the same position with different rotations. The right arm first grasps the battery (Subtask#1 Grasp) then places it into the slot (Subtask#2 
Place). The left arm presses onto the remote to prevent it from sliding, while the right arm pushes in the battery (Subtask#3 Insert).
Open Cup: Pick up and open the lid of a translucent condiment cup. The cup is randomized along the 15cm white line. Both arms approach the cup, 
and the right gripper gently tips over the cup (Subtask#1 Tip Over) and pushes it into the gripper of the left arm. The left arm then gently closes its 
gripper and lifts the cup off the table (Subtask#2 Grasp). Next, the right gripper approaches the cup lid from below and prys open the lid.
Thread Velcro: Pick up the velcro cable tie and insert one end into the small loop on the other end. The velcro tie is randomized along the 15cm 
white line. The left arm first picks up the velcro tie by pinching near the plastic loop (Subtask#1 Lift). The right arm grasps the tail of the velcro tie 
mid-air (Subtask#2 Grasp). Next, both arms coordinate to deform the velcro tie and insert one end of it into the plastic loop on the other end.
Prep Tape: Hang a short segment of tape on the edge of the box. The tape dispenser is randomized along the 15cm white line. First, the right gripper 
grasps the tape from the side (Subtask#1 Grasp). It then lifts the tape and pulls to unroll it, followed by cutting it with the dispenser blade 
(Subtask#2 Cut). Next, the right gripper hands the tape segment to the left gripper in mid-air (Subtask#3 Handover), and both arms move toward the 
corner of the stationery cardboard box. The left arm then lays the tape segment flat on the surface of the box while the right gripper pushes down on 
the tape to prevent slipping. The left arm then opens its gripper to release the tape (Subtask#4 Hang). 
#1
#2
#3
init.
#1
#2
#3
init.
#1
#2
#3
init.
#1
#2
#3
init.
#1
#2
#3
init.
#4
Real-World Task Definitions
Put On Shoe: Put a velcro-strap shoe on a fixed manniquin foot. The shoe pose is randomized along the 15cm white line. First, both left and right 
grippers pick up the shoe (Subtask#1 Lift). Then both arms coordinate to put it on, with the heel touching the heel counter (Subtask#2 Insert). Next, 
the left arm moves to support the shoe (Subtask#3 Support), followed by the right arm securing the velcro strap (Subtask#4 Secure).
#1
#2
#3
init.
#4
Fig. 6: Real-World Task Deﬁnitions. For each of the 6 real-world tasks, we illustrate the initializations and the subtasks.

=== PAGE 8 ===
Left: Cube Transfer. Transfer the red cube to the other arm. The right arm touches (#1) and grasps (#2) the red cube, then hands it to the left arm.
Right: Bimanual Insertion. Insert the red peg into the blue socket. Both arms grasp (#1), let socket and peg make contact (#2) and insertion.
20cm
20cm
10cm
20cm
10cm
20cm
init.
#1
#2
#3
init.
#1
#2
#3
rand. region
rand. regions
Fig. 7: Simulated Task Deﬁnitions. For each of the 2 simulated tasks, we illustrate the initializations and the subtasks.
Cube Transfer (sim)
Bimanual Insertion (sim)
Slide Ziploc (real)
Slot Battery (real)
Touched
Lifted
Transfer
Grasp
Contact
Insert
Grasp
Pinch
Open
Grasp
Place
Insert
BC-ConvMLP
34 | 3
17 | 1
1 | 0
5 | 0
1 | 0
1 | 0
0
0
0
0
0
0
BeT
60 | 16
51 | 13
27 | 1
21 | 0
4 | 0
3 | 0
8
0
0
4
0
0
RT-1
44 | 4
33 | 2
2 | 0
2 | 0
0 | 0
1 | 0
4
0
0
4
0
0
VINN
13 | 17
9 | 11
3 | 0
6 | 0
1 | 0
1 | 0
28
0
0
20
0
0
ACT (Ours)
97 | 82
90 | 60
86 | 50
93 | 76
90 | 66
32 | 20
92
96
88
100
100
96
TABLE I: Success rate (%) for 2 simulated and 2 real-world tasks, comparing our method with 4 baselines. For the two simulated tasks, we
report [training with scripted data | training with human data], with 3 seeds and 50 policy evaluations each. For the real-world tasks, we
report training with human data, with 1 seed and 25 evaluations. Overall, ACT signiﬁcantly outperforms previous methods.
Open Cup (real)
Thread Velcro (real)
Prep Tape (real)
Put On Shoe (real)
Tip Over
Grasp
Open Lid
Lift
Grasp
Insert
Grasp
Cut
Handover
Hang
Lift
Insert
Support
Secure
BeT
12
0
0
24
0
0
8
0
0
0
12
0
0
0
ACT (Ours)
100
96
84
92
40
20
96
92
72
64
100
92
92
92
TABLE II: Success rate (%) for the remaining 3 real-world tasks. We only compare with the best performing baseline BeT.
tape dispenser. Especially from the top view, it is challenging
to localize the velcro tie because of the small projected area.
B. Data Collection
For all 6 real-world tasks, we collect demonstrations using
ALOHA teleoperation. Each episode takes 8-14 seconds for the
human operator to perform depending on the complexity of the
task, which translates to 400-700 time steps given the control
frequency of 50Hz. We record 50 demonstrations for each task,
except for Thread Velcro which has 100. The total amount for
demonstrations is thus around 10-20 minutes of data for each
task, and 30-60 minutes in wall-clock time because of resets
and teleoperator mistakes. For the two simulated tasks, we
collect two types of demonstrations: one type with a scripted
policy and one with human demonstrations. To teleoperate in
simulation, we use the “leader robots” of ALOHA to control
the simulated robot, with the operator looking at the real-time
renderings of the environment on the monitor. In both cases,
we record 50 successful demonstrations.
We emphasize that all human demonstrations are inherently
stochastic, even though a single person collects all of the
demonstrations. Take the mid-air hand handover of the tape
segment as an example: the exact position of the handover
is different across each episode. The human has no visual or
haptic reference to perform it in the same position. Thus to
successfully perform the task, the policy will need to learn that
the two grippers should never collide with each other during
the handover, and the left gripper should always move to a
position that can grasp the tape, instead of trying to memorize
where exactly the handover happens, which can vary across
demonstrations.
C. Experiment Results
We compare ACT with four prior imitation learning methods.
BC-ConvMLP is the simplest yet most widely used base-
line [69, 26], which processes the current image observations
with a convolutional network, whose output features are
concatenated with the joint positions to predict the action.
BeT [49] also leverages Transformers as the architecture, but
with key differences: (1) no action chunking: the model predicts
one action given the history of observations; and (2) the image
observations are pre-processed by a separately trained frozen
visual encoder. That is, the perception and control networks
are not jointly optimized. RT-1 [7] is another Transformer-
based architecture that predicts one action from a ﬁxed-length
history of past observations. Both BeT and RT-1 discretize
the action space: the output is a categorical distribution over
discrete bins, but with an added continuous offset from the bin-
center in the case of BeT. Our method, ACT, instead directly
predicts continuous actions, motivated by the precision required
in ﬁne manipulation. Lastly, VINN [42] is a non-parametric
method that assumes access to the demonstrations at test time.
Given a new observation, it retrieves the k observations with
the most similar visual features, and returns an action using

=== PAGE 9 ===
weighted k-nearest-neighbors. The visual feature extractor is
a pretrained ResNet ﬁnetuned on demonstration data with
unsupervised learning. We carefully tune the hyperparameters
of these four prior methods using cube transfer. Details of the
hyperparameters are provided in Appendix D.
As a detailed comparison with prior methods, we report the
average success rate in Table I for two simulated and two real
tasks. For simulated tasks, we average performance across 3
random seeds with 50 trials each. We report the success rate
on both scripted data (left of separation bar) and human data
(right of separation bar). For real-world tasks, we run one seed
and evaluate with 25 trials. ACT achieves the highest success
rate compared to all prior methods, outperforming the second
best algorithm by a large margin on each task. For the two
simulated tasks with scripted or human data, ACT outperforms
the best previous method in success rate by 59%, 49%, 29%,
and 20%. While previous methods are able to make progress
in the ﬁrst two subtasks, the ﬁnal success rate remains low,
below 30%. For the two real-world tasks Slide Ziploc and
Slot Battery, ACT achieves 88% and 96% ﬁnal success rates
respectively, with other methods making no progress past the
ﬁrst stage. We attribute the poor performance of prior methods
to compounding errors and non-Markovian behavior in the
data: the behavior degrades signiﬁcantly towards the end of
an episode, and the robot can pause indeﬁnitely for certain
states. ACT mitigates both issues with action chunking. Our
ablations in Subsection VI-A also shows that chunking can
signiﬁcantly improve these prior methods when incorporated. In
addition, we notice a drop in performance for all methods when
switching from scripted data to human data in simulated tasks:
the stochasticity and multi-modality of human demonstrations
make imitation learning a lot harder.
We report the success rate of the 3 remaining real-world
tasks in Table II. For these tasks, we only compare with BeT,
which has the highest task success rate so far. Our method
ACT reaches 84% success for Cup Open, 20% for Thread
Velcro, 64% for Prep Tape and 92% for Put On Shoe, again
outperforming BeT, which achieve zero ﬁnal success on these
challenging tasks. We observe relatively low success of ACT
in Thread Velcro, where the success rate decreased by roughly
half at every stage, from 92% success at the ﬁrst stage to
20% ﬁnal success. The failure modes we observe are 1) at
stage 2, the right arm closes its gripper too early and fails to
grasp the tail of the cable tie mid-air, and 2) in stage 3, the
insertion is not precise enough and misses the loop. In both
cases, it is hard to determine the exact position of the cable tie
from image observations: the contrast is low between the black
cable tie and the background, and the cable tie only occupies
a small fraction of the image. We include examples of image
observations in Appendix B.
VI. ABLATIONS
ACT employs action chunking and temporal ensembling to
mitigate compounding errors and better handle non-Markovian
demonstrations. It also trains the policy as a conditional VAE
to model the noisy human demonstrations. In this section, we
ablate each of these components, together with a user study that
highlights the necessity of high-frequency control in ALOHA.
We report results across a total of four settings: two simulated
tasks with scripted or human demonstration.
A. Action Chunking and Temporal Ensembling
In Subsection V-C, we observed that ACT signiﬁcantly
outperforms previous methods that only predict single-step
actions, with the hypothesis that action chunking is the key
design choice. Since k dictates how long the sequence in each
“chunk” is, we can analyze this hypothesis by varying k. k = 1
corresponds to no action chunking, and k = episode_length
corresponds to fully open-loop control, where the robot
outputs the entire episode’s action sequence based on the
ﬁrst observation. We disable temporal ensembling in these
experiments to only measure the effect of chunking, and trained
separate policies for each k. In Figure 8 (a), we plot the success
rate averaged across 4 settings, corresponding to 2 simulated
tasks with either human or scripted data, with the blue line
representing ACT without the temporal ensemble. We observe
that performance improves drastically from 1% at k = 1 to
44% at k = 100, then slightly tapers down with higher k. This
illustrates that more chunking and a lower effective horizon
generally improve performance. We attribute the slight dip at
k = 200, 400 (i.e., close to open-loop control) to the lack of
reactive behavior and the difﬁculty in modeling long action
sequences. To further evaluate the effectiveness and generality
of action chunking, we augment two baseline methods with
action chunking. For BC-ConvMLP, we simply increase the
output dimension to k∗action_dim, and for VINN, we retrieve
the next k actions. We visualize their performance in Figure 8
(a) with different k, showing trends consistent with ACT, where
more action chunking improves performance. While ACT still
outperforms both augmented baselines with sizable gains, these
results suggest that action chunking is generally beneﬁcial for
imitation learning in these settings.
We then ablate the temporal ensemble by comparing the
highest success rate with or without it, again across the 4
aforementioned tasks and different k. We note that experiments
with and without the temporal ensemble are separately tuned:
hyperparameters that work best for no temporal ensemble may
not be optimal with a temporal ensemble. In Figure 8 (b), we
show that BC-ConvMLP beneﬁts from temporal ensembling the
most with a 4% gain, followed by a 3.3% gain for our method.
We notice a performance drop for VINN, a non-parametric
method. We hypothesize that a temporal ensemble mostly
beneﬁts parametric methods by smoothing out the modeling
errors. In contrast, VINN retrieves ground-truth actions from
the dataset and does not suffer from this issue.
B. Training with CVAE
We train ACT with CVAE objective to model human
demonstrations, which can be noisy and contain multi-modal
behavior. In this section, we compare with ACT without the
CVAE objective, which simply predicts a sequence of actions
given current observation, and trained with L1 loss. In Figure 8

=== PAGE 10 ===
0
12.5
25
37.5
50
1
10
100
200
400
Ours
BC-ConvMLP
VINN
fully-closed-loop
fully-open-loop
0
12.5
25
37.5
50
Ours
BC-ConvMLP
VINN
no TE
with TE
+3.3%
+4%
-20%
0
15
30
45
60
Scripted Data
Human Data
With CVAE
No CVAE
-1%
-33.3%
5Hz
50Hz
5Hz
50Hz
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
success (%)
success (%)
success (%)
k
thread zip tie
unstack cups 
duration (sec)
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
Fig. 8: (a) We augment two baselines with action chunking, with different values of chunk size k on the x-axis, and success rate on the
y-axis. Both methods signiﬁcantly beneﬁt from action chunking, suggesting that it is a generally useful technique. (b) Temporal Ensemble
(TE) improves our method and BC-ConvMLP, while hurting VINN. (c) We compare with and without the CVAE training, showing that it is
crucial when learning from human data. (d) We plot the distribution of task completion time in our user study, where we task participants to
perform two tasks, at 5Hz or 50Hz teleoperation frequency. Lowering the frequency results in a 62% slowdown in completion time.
(c), we visualize the success rate aggregated across 2 simulated
tasks, and separately plot training with scripted data and with
human data. We can see that when training on scripted data,
the removal of CVAE objective makes almost no difference in
performance, because dataset is fully deterministic. While for
human data, there is a signiﬁcant drop from 35.3% to 2%. This
illustrates that the CVAE objective is crucial when learning
from human demonstrations.
C. Is High-Frequency Necessary?
Lastly, we conduct a user study to illustrate the necessity
of high-frequency teleoperation for ﬁne manipulation. With
the same hardware setup, we lower the frequency from 50Hz
to 5Hz, a control frequency that is similar to recent works
that use high-capacity deep networks for imitation learning
[7, 70]. We pick two ﬁne-grained tasks: threading a zip cable
tie and un-stacking two plastic cups. Both require millimeter-
level precision and closed-loop visual feedback. We perform
the study with 6 participants who have varying levels of
experience with teleoperation, though none had used ALOHA
before. The participants were recruited from among computer
science graduate students, with 4 men and 2 women aged 22-25
The order of tasks and frequencies are randomized for each
participant, and each participant was provided with a 2 minutes
practice period before each trial. We recorded the time it took to
perform the task for 3 trials, and visualize the data in Figure 8
(d). On average, it took 33s for participants to thread the zip
tie at 5Hz, which is lowered to 20s at 50Hz. For separating
plastic cups, increasing the control frequency lowered the task
duration from 16s to 10s. Overall, our setup (i.e. 50Hz) allows
the participants to perform highly dexterous and precise tasks in
a short amount of time. However, reducing the frequency from
50Hz to 5Hz results in a 62% increase in teleoperation time. We
then use “Repeated Measures Designs”, a statistical procedure,
to formally verify that 50Hz teleoperation outperforms 5Hz
with p-value <0.001. We include more details about the study
in Appendix E.
VII. LIMITATIONS AND CONCLUSION
We present a low-cost system for ﬁne manipulation, com-
prising a teleoperation system ALOHA and a novel imitation
learning algorithm ACT. The synergy between these two parts
allows us to learn ﬁne manipulation skills directly in the real-
world, such as opening a translucent condiment cup and slotting
a battery with a 80-90% success rate and around 10 min of
demonstrations. While the system is quite capable, there exist
tasks that are beyond the capability of either the robots or
the learning algorithm, such as buttoning up a dress shirt.
We include a more detailed discussion about limitations in
Appendix F. Overall, we hope that this low-cost open-source
system represents an important step and accessible resource
towards advancing ﬁne-grained robotic manipulation.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
We thank members of the IRIS lab at Stanford for their
support and feedback. We also thank Siddharth Karamcheti,
Toki Migimatsu, Staven Cao, Huihan Liu, Mandi Zhao, Pete
Florence and Corey Lynch for helpful discussions. Tony Zhao
is supported by Stanford Robotics Fellowship sponsored by
FANUC, in addition to Schmidt Futures and ONR Grant
N00014-21-1-2685.
REFERENCES
[1] Viperx 300 robot arm 6dof.
URL https://www.
trossenrobotics.com/viperx-300-robot-arm-6dof.aspx.
[2] Widowx 250 robot arm 6dof.
URL https://www.
trossenrobotics.com/widowx-250-robot-arm-6dof.aspx.
[3] Highly dexterous manipulation system - capabilities - part
1, Nov 2014. URL https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=
TearcKVj0iY.
[4] Assembly
performance
metrics
and
test
methods,
Apr
2022.
URL
https://www.
nist.gov/el/intelligent-systems-division-73500/
robotic-grasping-and-manipulation-assembly/assembly.
[5] Teleoperated robots - shadow teleoperation system, Nov
2022. URL https://www.shadowrobot.com/teleoperation/.
[6] Sridhar Pandian Arunachalam, Irmak Güzey, Soumith
Chintala, and Lerrel Pinto.
Holo-dex: Teaching dex-
terity with immersive mixed reality.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2210.06463, 2022.
[7] Anthony Brohan, Noah Brown, Justice Carbajal, Yev-
gen Chebotar, Joseph Dabis, Chelsea Finn, Keerthana

=== PAGE 11 ===
Gopalakrishnan, Karol Hausman, Alexander Herzog,
Jasmine Hsu, Julian Ibarz, Brian Ichter, Alex Irpan, Tomas
Jackson, Sally Jesmonth, Nikhil J. Joshi, Ryan C. Julian,
Dmitry Kalashnikov, Yuheng Kuang, Isabel Leal, Kuang-
Huei Lee, Sergey Levine, Yao Lu, Utsav Malla, Deek-
sha Manjunath, Igor Mordatch, Oﬁr Nachum, Carolina
Parada, Jodilyn Peralta, Emily Perez, Karl Pertsch, Jornell
Quiambao, Kanishka Rao, Michael S. Ryoo, Grecia
Salazar, Pannag R. Sanketi, Kevin Sayed, Jaspiar Singh,
Sumedh Anand Sontakke, Austin Stone, Clayton Tan,
Huong Tran, Vincent Vanhoucke, Steve Vega, Quan Ho
Vuong, F. Xia, Ted Xiao, Peng Xu, Sichun Xu, Tianhe
Yu, and Brianna Zitkovich. Rt-1: Robotics transformer
for real-world control at scale. ArXiv, abs/2212.06817,
2022.
[8] Nicolas Carion, Francisco Massa, Gabriel Synnaeve, Nico-
las Usunier, Alexander Kirillov, and Sergey Zagoruyko.
End-to-end object detection with transformers. ArXiv,
abs/2005.12872, 2020.
[9] Yuanpei Chen, Yaodong Yang, Tianhao Wu, Shengjie
Wang, Xidong Feng, Jiechuan Jiang, Stephen McAleer,
Hao Dong, Zongqing Lu, and Song-Chun Zhu. Towards
human-level bimanual dexterous manipulation with rein-
forcement learning. ArXiv, abs/2206.08686, 2022.
[10] Rohan Chitnis, Shubham Tulsiani, Saurabh Gupta, and
Abhinav Kumar Gupta. Efﬁcient bimanual manipulation
using learned task schemas. 2020 IEEE International
Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pages
1149–1155, 2019.
[11] Sudeep Dasari and Abhinav Kumar Gupta. Transformers
for one-shot visual imitation. In Conference on Robot
Learning, 2020.
[12] Pim de Haan, Dinesh Jayaraman, and Sergey Levine.
Causal confusion in imitation learning.
In Neural
Information Processing Systems, 2019.
[13] Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and
Kristina Toutanova. Bert: Pre-training of deep bidirec-
tional transformers for language understanding. ArXiv,
abs/1810.04805, 2019.
[14] Yan Duan, Marcin Andrychowicz, Bradly C. Stadie,
Jonathan Ho, Jonas Schneider, Ilya Sutskever, P. Abbeel,
and Wojciech Zaremba.
One-shot imitation learning.
ArXiv, abs/1703.07326, 2017.
[15] Frederik
Ebert,
Yanlai
Yang,
Karl
Schmeckpeper,
Bernadette Bucher, Georgios Georgakis, Kostas Daniilidis,
Chelsea Finn, and Sergey Levine. Bridge data: Boosting
generalization of robotic skills with cross-domain datasets.
ArXiv, abs/2109.13396, 2021.
[16] Peter R. Florence, Lucas Manuelli, and Russ Tedrake. Self-
supervised correspondence in visuomotor policy learning.
IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, 5:492–499, 2019.
[17] Peter R. Florence, Corey Lynch, Andy Zeng, Oscar
Ramirez, Ayzaan Wahid, Laura Downs, Adrian S. Wong,
Johnny Lee, Igor Mordatch, and Jonathan Tompson.
Implicit behavioral cloning. ArXiv, abs/2109.00137, 2021.
[18] Aditya Ganapathi, Priya Sundaresan, Brijen Thananjeyan,
Ashwin Balakrishna, Daniel Seita, Jennifer Grannen,
Minho Hwang, Ryan Hoque, Joseph Gonzalez, Nawid
Jamali, Katsu Yamane, Soshi Iba, and Ken Goldberg.
Learning dense visual correspondences in simulation to
smooth and fold real fabrics. 2021 IEEE International
Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pages
11515–11522, 2020.
[19] Jennifer Grannen, Priya Sundaresan, Brijen Thananjeyan,
Jeffrey Ichnowski, Ashwin Balakrishna, Minho Hwang,
Vainavi Viswanath, Michael Laskey, Joseph Gonzalez,
and Ken Goldberg. Untangling dense knots by learning
task-relevant keypoints. In Conference on Robot Learning,
2020.
[20] Huy Ha and Shuran Song. Flingbot: The unreasonable
effectiveness of dynamic manipulation for cloth unfolding.
ArXiv, abs/2105.03655, 2021.
[21] Ankur Handa, Karl Van Wyk, Wei Yang, Jacky Liang, Yu-
Wei Chao, Qian Wan, Stan Birchﬁeld, Nathan D. Ratliff,
and Dieter Fox.
Dexpilot: Vision-based teleoperation
of dexterous robotic hand-arm system.
2020 IEEE
International Conference on Robotics and Automation
(ICRA), pages 9164–9170, 2019.
[22] Kaiming He, X. Zhang, Shaoqing Ren, and Jian Sun.
Deep residual learning for image recognition. 2016 IEEE
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
(CVPR), pages 770–778, 2015.
[23] Irina Higgins, Loïc Matthey, Arka Pal, Christopher P.
Burgess, Xavier Glorot, Matthew M. Botvinick, Shakir
Mohamed, and Alexander Lerchner. beta-vae: Learning
basic visual concepts with a constrained variational
framework.
In International Conference on Learning
Representations, 2016.
[24] Ryan Hoque, Ashwin Balakrishna, Ellen R. Novoseller,
Albert Wilcox, Daniel S. Brown, and Ken Goldberg.
Thriftydagger: Budget-aware novelty and risk gating for
interactive imitation learning. In Conference on Robot
Learning, 2021.
[25] Stephen James, Michael Bloesch, and Andrew J. Davison.
Task-embedded control networks for few-shot imitation
learning. ArXiv, abs/1810.03237, 2018.
[26] Eric Jang, Alex Irpan, Mohi Khansari, Daniel Kappler,
Frederik Ebert, Corey Lynch, Sergey Levine, and Chelsea
Finn. Bc-z: Zero-shot task generalization with robotic
imitation learning. In Conference on Robot Learning,
2022.
[27] R G Jenness and C D Wicker. Master–slave manipulators
and remote maintenance at the oak ridge national labora-
tory, Jan 1975. URL https://www.osti.gov/biblio/4179544.
[28] Edward Johns. Coarse-to-ﬁne imitation learning: Robot
manipulation from a single demonstration. 2021 IEEE
International Conference on Robotics and Automation
(ICRA), pages 4613–4619, 2021.
[29] Liyiming Ke, Jingqiang Wang, Tapomayukh Bhattachar-
jee, Byron Boots, and Siddhartha Srinivasa. Grasping
with chopsticks: Combating covariate shift in model-free
imitation learning for ﬁne manipulation. In International

=== PAGE 12 ===
Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), 2021.
[30] Michael Kelly, Chelsea Sidrane, K. Driggs-Campbell,
and Mykel J. Kochenderfer.
Hg-dagger: Interactive
imitation learning with human experts. 2019 International
Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pages
8077–8083, 2018.
[31] Heecheol Kim, Yoshiyuki Ohmura, and Yasuo Kuniyoshi.
Gaze-based dual resolution deep imitation learning for
high-precision dexterous robot manipulation.
IEEE
Robotics and Automation Letters, 6:1630–1637, 2021.
[32] Heecheol Kim, Yoshiyuki Ohmura, and Yasuo Kuniyoshi.
Robot peels banana with goal-conditioned dual-action
deep imitation learning. ArXiv, abs/2203.09749, 2022.
[33] Diederik P. Kingma and Max Welling. Auto-encoding
variational bayes. CoRR, abs/1312.6114, 2013.
[34] Oliver Kroemer, Christian Daniel, Gerhard Neumann,
Herke van Hoof, and Jan Peters.
Towards learning
hierarchical skills for multi-phase manipulation tasks.
2015 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and
Automation (ICRA), pages 1503–1510, 2015.
[35] Lucy Lai, Ann Z Huang, and Samuel J Gershman. Action
chunking as policy compression, Sep 2022. URL psyarxiv.
com/z8yrv.
[36] Michael Laskey, Jonathan Lee, Roy Fox, Anca D. Dragan,
and Ken Goldberg.
Dart: Noise injection for robust
imitation learning. In Conference on Robot Learning,
2017.
[37] Alex X. Lee, Henry Lu, Abhishek Gupta, Sergey Levine,
and P. Abbeel.
Learning force-based manipulation
of deformable objects from multiple demonstrations.
2015 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and
Automation (ICRA), pages 177–184, 2015.
[38] Weiwei Li. Optimal control for biological movement
systems. 2006.
[39] Ajay Mandlekar, Danfei Xu, J. Wong, Soroush Nasiriany,
Chen Wang, Rohun Kulkarni, Li Fei-Fei, Silvio Savarese,
Yuke Zhu, and Roberto Mart’in-Mart’in. What matters
in learning from ofﬂine human demonstrations for robot
manipulation. In Conference on Robot Learning, 2021.
[40] Kunal Menda, K. Driggs-Campbell, and Mykel J. Kochen-
derfer. Ensembledagger: A bayesian approach to safe
imitation learning. 2019 IEEE/RSJ International Confer-
ence on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), pages
5041–5048, 2018.
[41] Samuel Paradis, Minho Hwang, Brijen Thananjeyan,
Jeffrey Ichnowski, Daniel Seita, Danyal Fer, Thomas
Low, Joseph Gonzalez, and Ken Goldberg. Intermittent
visual servoing: Efﬁciently learning policies robust to
instrument changes for high-precision surgical manipula-
tion. 2021 IEEE International Conference on Robotics
and Automation (ICRA), pages 7166–7173, 2020.
[42] Jyothish Pari, Nur Muhammad, Sridhar Pandian Arunacha-
lam, and Lerrel Pinto. The surprising effectiveness of
representation learning for visual imitation. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2112.01511, 2021.
[43] Peter Pastor, Heiko Hoffmann, Tamim Asfour, and Stefan
Schaal. Learning and generalization of motor skills by
learning from demonstration. 2009 IEEE International
Conference on Robotics and Automation, pages 763–768,
2009.
[44] Dean A. Pomerleau. Alvinn: An autonomous land vehicle
in a neural network. In NIPS, 1988.
[45] Yuzhe Qin, Hao Su, and Xiaolong Wang.
From one
hand to multiple hands: Imitation learning for dexterous
manipulation from single-camera teleoperation. IEEE
Robotics and Automation Letters, 7:10873–10881, 2022.
[46] Rouhollah Rahmatizadeh, Pooya Abolghasemi, Ladislau
Bölöni, and Sergey Levine.
Vision-based multi-task
manipulation for inexpensive robots using end-to-end
learning from demonstration. 2018 IEEE International
Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pages
3758–3765, 2017.
[47] Stéphane Ross, Geoffrey J. Gordon, and J. Andrew
Bagnell. A reduction of imitation learning and structured
prediction to no-regret online learning. In International
Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence and Statistics, 2010.
[48] Seyed Sina Mirrazavi Salehian, Nadia Figueroa, and Aude
Billard. A uniﬁed framework for coordinated multi-arm
motion planning. The International Journal of Robotics
Research, 37:1205 – 1232, 2018.
[49] Nur Muhammad (Mahi) Shaﬁullah, Zichen Jeff Cui,
Ariuntuya Altanzaya, and Lerrel Pinto. Behavior trans-
formers: Cloning k modes with one stone.
ArXiv,
abs/2206.11251, 2022.
[50] Kaushik Shivakumar, Vainavi Viswanath, Anrui Gu,
Yahav Avigal, Justin Kerr, Jeffrey Ichnowski, Richard
Cheng, Thomas Kollar, and Ken Goldberg. Sgtm 2.0:
Autonomously untangling long cables using interactive
perception. ArXiv, abs/2209.13706, 2022.
[51] Mohit Shridhar, Lucas Manuelli, and Dieter Fox. Cliport:
What and where pathways for robotic manipulation. ArXiv,
abs/2109.12098, 2021.
[52] Mohit Shridhar, Lucas Manuelli, and Dieter Fox.
Perceiver-actor: A multi-task transformer for robotic
manipulation. ArXiv, abs/2209.05451, 2022.
[53] Aravind Sivakumar, Kenneth Shaw, and Deepak Pathak.
Robotic telekinesis: Learning a robotic hand imitator by
watching humans on youtube. RSS, 2022.
[54] Christian Smith, Yiannis Karayiannidis, Lazaros Nal-
pantidis, Xavi Gratal, Peng Qi, Dimos V. Dimarogonas,
and Danica Kragic. Dual arm manipulation - a survey.
Robotics Auton. Syst., 60:1340–1353, 2012.
[55] Kihyuk Sohn, Honglak Lee, and Xinchen Yan. Learning
structured output representation using deep conditional
generative models. In NIPS, 2015.
[56] srcteam.
Shadow teleoperation system plays jenga,
Mar 2021.
URL https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=
7K9brH27jvM.
[57] srcteam.
How researchers are using shadow robot’s
technology, Jun 2022. URL https://www.youtube.com/
watch?v=p36fYIoTD8M.
[58] srcteam. Shadow teleoperation system, Jun 2022. URL

=== PAGE 13 ===
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cx8eznfDUJA.
[59] Simon Stepputtis, Maryam Bandari, Stefan Schaal, and
Heni Ben Amor.
A system for imitation learning
of contact-rich bimanual manipulation policies.
2022
IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots
and Systems (IROS), pages 11810–11817, 2022.
[60] Priya Sundaresan, Jennifer Grannen, Brijen Thanan-
jeyan, Ashwin Balakrishna, Jeffrey Ichnowski, Ellen R.
Novoseller, Minho Hwang, Michael Laskey, Joseph Gon-
zalez, and Ken Goldberg. Untangling dense non-planar
knots by learning manipulation features and recovery
policies. ArXiv, abs/2107.08942, 2021.
[61] Gokul Swamy, Sanjiban Choudhury, J. Andrew Bagnell,
and Zhiwei Steven Wu. Causal imitation learning under
temporally correlated noise. In International Conference
on Machine Learning, 2022.
[62] Naftali Tishby and Noga Zaslavsky. Deep learning and the
information bottleneck principle. 2015 IEEE Information
Theory Workshop (ITW), pages 1–5, 2015.
[63] Emanuel Todorov, Tom Erez, and Yuval Tassa. Mujoco: A
physics engine for model-based control. 2012 IEEE/RSJ
International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Sys-
tems, pages 5026–5033, 2012.
[64] Stephen Tu, Alexander Robey, Tingnan Zhang, and
N. Matni. On the sample complexity of stability con-
strained imitation learning. In Conference on Learning
for Dynamics & Control, 2021.
[65] Ashish Vaswani, Noam M. Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob
Uszkoreit, Llion Jones, Aidan N. Gomez, Lukasz Kaiser,
and Illia Polosukhin. Attention is all you need. ArXiv,
abs/1706.03762, 2017.
[66] Solomon Wiznitzer, Luke Schmitt, and Matt Trossen.
interbotix_ros_manipulators.
URL https://github.com/
Interbotix/interbotix_ros_manipulators.
[67] Fan Xie, A. M. Masum Bulbul Chowdhury, M. Clara
De Paolis Kaluza, Linfeng Zhao, Lawson L. S. Wong,
and Rose Yu. Deep imitation learning for bimanual robotic
manipulation. ArXiv, abs/2010.05134, 2020.
[68] Andy Zeng, Peter R. Florence, Jonathan Tompson, Stefan
Welker, Jonathan Chien, Maria Attarian, Travis Armstrong,
Ivan Krasin, Dan Duong, Vikas Sindhwani, and Johnny
Lee. Transporter networks: Rearranging the visual world
for robotic manipulation.
In Conference on Robot
Learning, 2020.
[69] Tianhao Zhang, Zoe McCarthy, Owen Jow, Dennis Lee,
Ken Goldberg, and P. Abbeel. Deep imitation learning
for complex manipulation tasks from virtual reality
teleoperation. 2018 IEEE International Conference on
Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pages 1–8, 2017.
[70] Allan Zhou, Moo Jin Kim, Lirui Wang, Peter R. Florence,
and Chelsea Finn.
Nerf in the palm of your hand:
Corrective augmentation for robotics via novel-view
synthesis. ArXiv, abs/2301.08556, 2023.
[71] Áron Horváth, Eszter Ferentzi, Kristóf Schwartz, Nina
Jacobs, Pieter Meyns, and Ferenc Köteles. The measure-
ment of proprioceptive accuracy: A systematic literature
review. Journal of Sport and Health Science, 2022. ISSN
2095-2546.
doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jshs.2022.04.
001. URL https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/
pii/S2095254622000473.

=== PAGE 14 ===
APPENDIX
A. Comparing ALOHA with Prior Teleoperation Setups
In Figure 9, we include more teleoperated tasks that ALOHA
is capable of. We stress that all objects are taken directly
from the real world without any modiﬁcation, to demonstrate
ALOHA’s generality in real life settings.
ALOHA exploits the kinesthetic similarity between leader and
follower robots by using joint-space mapping for teleoperation.
A leader-follower design choice dates back to at least as far as
1953, when Central Research Laboratories built teleoperation
systems for handling hazardous material [27]. More recently,
companies like RE2 [3] also built highly dexterous teleoperation
systems with joint-space mapping. ALOHA is similar to these
previous systems, while beneﬁting signiﬁcantly from recent
advances of low-cost actuators and robot arms. It allows us to
achieve similar levels of dexterity with much lower cost, and
also without specialized hardware or expert assembly.
Next, we compare the cost of ALOHA to recent teleoperation
systems. DexPilot [21] controls a dexterous hand using image
streams of a human hand. It has 4 calibrated Intel Realsense to
capture the point cloud of a human hand, and retarget the pose
to an Allegro hand. The Allegro hand is then mounted to a
KUKA LBR iiwa7 R800. DexPilot allows for impressive tasks
such as extracting money from a wallet, opening a penut jar,
and insertion tasks in NIST board #1. We estimate the system
cost to be around $100k with one arm+hand. More recent works
such as Robotic Telekinesis [53, 6, 45] seek to reduce the cost
of DexPilot by using a single RGB camera to detect hand
pose, and retarget using learning techniques. While sensing
cost is greatly reduced, the cost for robot hand and arm remains
high: a dexterous hand has more degrees of freedom and is
naturally pricier. Moving the hand around would also require
an industrial arm with at least 2kg payload, increasing the price
further. We estimate the cost of these systems to be around
$18k with one arm+hand. Lastly, the Shadow Teleoperation
System is a bimanual system for teleoperating two dexterous
hands. Both hands are mounted to a UR10 robot, and the hand
pose is obtained by either a tracking glove or a haptic glove.
This system is the most capable among all aforementioned
works, beneﬁtted from its bimanual design. However, it also
costs the most, at at least $400k. ALOHA, on the other hand,
is a bimanual setup that costs $18k ($20k after adding optional
add-ons such as cameras). Reducing dexterous hands to parallel
jaw grippers allows us to use light-weight and low-cost robots,
which can be more nimble and require less service.
Finally, we compare the capabilities of ALOHA with previous
systems. We choose the most capable system as reference: the
Shadow Teleoperation System [5], which costs more than 10x
of ALOHA. Speciﬁcally, we found three demonstration videos
[56, 57, 58] that contain 15 example use cases of the Shadow
Teleoperation System, and seek to recreate them using ALOHA.
The tasks include playing “beer pong”, “jenga,” and a rubik’s
cube, using a dustpan and brush, twisting open a water bottle,
pouring liquid out, untying velcro cable tie, picking up an egg
and a light bulb, inserting and unplugging USB, RJ45, using a
pipette, writing, twisting open an aluminum case, and in-hand
rotation of Baoding balls. We are able to recreate 14 out of the
15 tasks with similar objects and comparable amount of time.
We cannot recreate the Baoding ball in-hand rotation task, as
our setup does not have a hand.
B. Example Image Observations
We include example image observations taken during policy
execution time in Figure 10, for each of the 6 real tasks. From
left to right, the 4 images are from top camera, front camera, left
wrist, and right wrist respectively. The top and front cameras
are static, while the wrist cameras move with the robots and
give detailed views of the gripper. We also rotate the front
camera by 90 degrees to capture more vertical space. For all
cameras, the focal length is ﬁxed with auto-exposure on to
adjust for changing lighting conditions. All cameras steam at
480 × 640 and 30fps.
C. Detailed Architecture Diagram
We include a more detailed architecture diagram in Figure 11.
At training time, we ﬁrst sample tuples of RGB images and
joint positions, together with the corresponding action sequence
as prediction target (Step 1: sample data). We then infer style
variable z using CVAE encoder shown in yellow (Step 2: infer
z). The input to the encoder are 1) the [CLS] token, which
consists of learned weights that are randomly initialized, 2)
embedded joint positions, which are joint positions projected
to the embedding dimension using a linear layer, 3) embedded
action sequence, which is the action sequence projected to the
embedding dimension using another linear layer. These inputs
form a sequence of (k + 2) × embedding_dimension, and
is processed with the transformer encoder. We only take the
ﬁrst output, which corresponds to the [CLS] token, and use
another linear network to predict the mean and variance of
z’s distribution, parameterizing it as a diagonal Gaussian. A
sample of z is obtained using reparameterization, a standard
way to allow back-propagating through the sampling process
so the encoder and decoder can be jointly optimized [33].
Next, we try to obtain the predicted action from CVAE
decoder i.e. the policy (Step 3: predict action sequence). For
each of the image observations, it is ﬁrst processed by a
ResNet18 to obtain a feature map, and then ﬂattened to
get a sequence of features. These features are projected to
the embedding dimension with a linear layer, and we add
a 2D sinusoidal position embedding to perserve the spatial
information. The feature sequence from each camera is then
concatenated to be used as input to the transformer encoder.
Two additional inputs are joint positions and z, which are also
projected to the embedding dimension with two linear layers
respectively. The output of the transformer encoder are then
used as both “keys” and “values” in cross attention layers of
the transformer decoder, which predicts action sequence given
encoder output. The “queries” are ﬁxed sinusoidal embeddings
for the ﬁrst layer.
At test time, the CVAE encoder (shown in yellow) is
discarded and the CVAE decoder is used as the policy. The

=== PAGE 15 ===
Fig. 9: Teleoperation task examples with ALOHA. We include videos on the project website.
incoming observations (images and joints) are fed into the
model in the same way as during training. The only difference
is in z, which represents the “style” of the action sequence
we want to elicit from the policy. We simply set z to a zero
vector, which is the mean of the unit Gaussian prior used
during training. Thus given an observation, the output of the
policy is always deterministic, beneﬁting policy evaluation.
D. Experiment Details and Hyperparameters
We carefully tune the baselines and include the hyperparam-
eters used in Table III, IV, V, VI, VII. For BeT, we found
that increasing history length from 10 (as in original paper) to
100 greatly improves the performance. Large hidden dimension
also generally helps. For VINN, the k used when retrieving
nearest neighbor is adaptively chosen with the lowest validation
loss, same as the original paper. We also found that using joint
position differences in addition to visual feature similarity
improves performance when there is no action chunking, in
which case we have state weight = 10 when retrieving actions.
However, we found this to hurt performance with action
chunking and thus set state weight to 0 for action chunking
experiments.
E. User Study Details
We conduct the user study with 6 participants, recruited
from computer science graduate students, with 4 men and
2 women aged 22-25. 3 of the participants had experience
teleoperating robots with a VR controller, and the other 3 has
no prior experience teleoperating. None of the participants used
ALOHA before. To implement the 5Hz version of ALOHA, we
read from the leader robot at 5Hz, interpolate in the joint space,
and send the interpolated positions to the robot at 50Hz. We
choose tasks that emphasizes high-precision and close-loop
visual feedback. We include images of the objects used in
Figure 12. For threading zip cable tie, the hole measures 4mm
x 1.5mm, and the cable tie measures 0.8mm x 3.5mm with a
pointy tip. It is initially lying ﬂat on the table, and the operator
needs to pick it up with one gripper, grasp the other end mid-
air, then coordinate both hands to insert one end of the cable
tie into the hole on the other end. For unstacking cup, we use
two single-use plastic cups that has 2.5mm clearance between
them when stacked. The teleoperator need to grasp the edge
of upper cup, then either shake to separate or use the help
from the other gripper. During the user study, we randomize
the order in which operators attempt each task, and whether
they use 50Hz or 5Hz controller ﬁrst. We also randomize the
initial position of the object randomly around the table center.
For each setting, the operator has 2 minutes to adapt, followed
by 3 consecutive attempts of the task with duration recorded.
F. Limitations
We now discuss limitations of the ALOHA hardware and
the policy learning with ACT.

=== PAGE 16 ===
Fig. 10: Image observation examples for 5 real-world tasks. The 4 columns are [top camera, front camera, left wrist camera, right wrist
camera] respectively. We rotate the front camera by 90 degree to capture more vertical space.
Hardware Limitations. On the hardware front, ALOHA
struggles with tasks that require multiple ﬁngers from both
hands, for example opening child-proof pill bottles with a push
tab. To open the bottle, one hand needs to hold the bottle and
pushes down on the push tab, with the other hand twisting the
lid open. ALOHA also struggles with tasks that require high
amount of forces, for example lifting heavy objects, twisting
open a sealed bottle of water, or opening markers caps that are
tightly pressed together. This is because the low-cost motors
cannot generate enough torque to support these manipulations.
Tasks that requires ﬁnger nails are also difﬁcult for ALOHA,
even though we design the grippers to be thin on the edge.
For example, we are not able to lift the edge of packing tape
when it is taped onto itself, or opening aluminum soda cans.
Policy Learning Limitations. On the software front, we report
all 2 tasks that we attempted where ACT failed to learn
the behavior. The ﬁrst one is unwrapping candies. The steps
involves picking up the candy from the table, pull on both
ends of it, and pry open the wrapper to expose the candy. We
collected 50 demonstrations to train the ACT policy. In our
preliminary evaluation with 10 trials, the policy picks up the
candy 10/10, pulls on both ends 8/10, while unwraps the candy
0/10. We attribute the failure to the difﬁculty of perception and
lack of data. Speciﬁcally, after pulling the candy on both sides,
the seam for prying open the candy wrapper could appear
anywhere around the candy. During demonstration collection,
it is difﬁcult even for human to discern. The operator needs to
judge by looking at the graphics printed on the wrapper and
ﬁnd the discontinuity. We constantly observe the policy trying
to peel at places where the seam does not exist. To better track
the progress, we attempted another evaluation where we give
10 trials for each candy, and repeat this for 5 candies. For this
protocol, our policy successfully unwraps 3/5 candies.
Another task that ACT struggles with is opening a small
ziploc bag laying ﬂat on the table. The right gripper needs to
ﬁrst pick it up, adjust it so that the left gripper can grasp ﬁrmly
on the pulling region, followed by the right hand grasping
the other side of the pulling region, and pull it open. Our
policy trained with 50 demonstrations can consistently pick
up the bag, while having difﬁculties performing the following
3 mid-air manipulation steps. We hypothesize that the bag is
hard to perceive, and in addition, small differences in the pick
up position can affect how the bag deforms, and result in large
differences in where the pulling region ends up. We believe
that pretraining, more data, and better perception are promising
directions to tackle these extremely difﬁcult tasks.

=== PAGE 17 ===
transformer
encoder
4x self-attention blocks
…
…
transformer
decoder
7x cross-attention blocks
joints
cam 1
cam 4
position embeddings (ﬁxed)
predicted action sequence
1
2
3
4
…
transformer
encoder
4x self-attention blocks
…
embedded action sequence
embedded
joints
[CLS]
…
…
…
…
…
Demo
Dataset
…
action sequence
(k x 14)
sample
4 RGB images
4x (480x640x3)
joints 
(14)
,
batch size
Training
Step 1: sample data
Step 2: infer z
Step 3: predict action sequence
…
action sequence
(k x 14)
joints 
(14)
linear layer 1
14 -> 512
…
embedded action sequence
(k x 512)
+
Sinusoidal 
Position Embedding
linear layer 2
14 -> 512
embedded joints
(512)
[CLS]
(512)
Weight matrix
(512)
(512)
(512)
(k x 512)
15x20x728
300x728
300x512
linear layer 5
728 -> 512
ﬂatten
+
Sinusoidal 
PosEmb
linear layer 4
512 -> 64
z_mean (32)
z_std (32)
sample with 
reparametrization
linear layer 6
14 -> 512
linear layer 7
32 -> 512
Testing
transformer
encoder
4x self-attention blocks
…
…
transformer
decoder
7x cross-attention blocks
joints
cam 1
cam 4
position embeddings (ﬁxed)
predicted action sequence
1
2
3
4
…
…
…
…
…
…
15x20x728
300x728
300x512
linear layer 5
728 -> 512
ﬂatten
+
Sinusoidal 
PosEmb
linear layer 6
14 -> 512
linear layer 7
32 -> 512
joints
incoming 
observations
ResNet18
+Sinusoidal PosEmb
ResNet18
+Sinusoidal PosEmb
Fig. 11: Detail architecture of Action Chunking with Transformers (ACT).

=== PAGE 18 ===
Fig. 12: The cable tie and cups for user study.
learning rate
1e-5
batch size
8
# encoder layers
4
# decoder layers
7
feedforward dimension
3200
hidden dimension
512
# heads
8
chunk size
100
beta
10
dropout
0.1
TABLE III: Hyperparameters of ACT.
learning rate
3e-4
batch size
128
epochs
100
momentum
0.9
weight decay
1.5e-6
TABLE IV: Hyperparameters of BYOL, the feature extractor for VINN and BeT.
learning rate
1e-4
batch size
64
# layers
6
# heads
6
hidden dimension
768
history length
100
weight decay
0.1
offset loss scale
1000
focal loss gamma
2
dropout
0.1
discretizer #bins
64
TABLE V: Hyperparameters of BeT.
k (nearest neighbour)
adaptive
state weight
0 or 10
TABLE VI: Hyperparameters of VINN.
learning rate
1e-5
batch size
2
ViT dim head
32
ViT window size
7
ViT mbconv expansion rate
4
ViT mbconv shrinkage rate
0.25
ViT dropout
0.1
RT-1 depth
6
RT-1 heads
8
RT-1 dim head
64
RT-1 action bins
256
RT-1 cond drop prob
0.2
RT-1 token learner num output tokens
8
weight decay
0
history length
6
TABLE VII: Hyperparameters of RT-1.
